Dennis Eversberg, Martin Fritz,
Bioeconomy as a societal transformation: Mentalities, conflicts and social practices,
Sustainable Production and Consumption,
Volume 30,
2022,
Pages 973-987,
ISSN 2352-5509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2022.01.021.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352550922000215)
Abstract: In this article, we argue that a comprehensive understanding of the kinds of societal change envisioned and contested in the bioeconomy debate requires broadening the view beyond policy debates and stakeholder positions. We use representative German survey data from 2018 to explore social conflicts and coalitions for and against bio-based, post-fossil transformations within the general population. Mapping different socio-ecological mentalities in a relational analysis, we find that tensions between growth- and sufficiency-oriented, high-tech-focused and techno-skeptical as well as between fossilist and post-fossil visions shape the current ‘socio-ecological space of possibilities’ for transformations in Germany. Results show most of the population to broadly align along a continuum between 'less is more' views skeptical of both growth and technology and visions of 'technoeconomic advance' that favor both. In addition, a more openly conflictual confrontation surfaces between a 'sufficient progress' view that looks to reconcile sufficiency with democratically checked technology use and a 'growth as usual' imaginary openly opposed to any kind of post-fossil transformation. These tensions correlate with social inequalities: Women and the materially disadvantaged tend to favor 'less is more' views, men and the more affluent those of 'technoeconomic advance'. Moreover, starkly contrasting patterns of environmentally relevant practices emerge along the growth and fossilism dimensions. We conclude that issues surrounding bio-based, post-fossil transformations are more contested among the population than in policy debates, entailing significant potential for social conflicts. The core challenge will be to establish ecologically sustainable and socially just transformation pathways in democratic and participatory ways.
Keywords: Bioeconomy; Post-fossil transformation; Sufficiency; Socio-ecological conflict; Mentalities; Relational sociology

Sandro Luh, Ramachandran Kannan, Russell McKenna, Thomas J. Schmidt, Tom Kober,
Quantifying the impact of travel time duration and valuation on modal shift in Swiss passenger transportation,
Applied Energy,
Volume 356,
2024,
122412,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2023.122412.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261923017762)
Abstract: Decarbonizing the passenger transportation sector is critical for climate change mitigation. Existing studies on net-zero scenarios using Energy System Optimization Models (ESOM) often overlook non-monetary aspects of consumers' mobility choices but primarily focus on cost aspects. This study incorporates consumers' travel time duration and valuation, and an endogenous modal shift option into the Swiss TIMES Energy system Model (STEM). STEM is applied in a multi-objective optimization framework to quantify the impacts of faster Public Transport (PT) and slower car speeds on modal shifts in the transport sector's transformation. Similarly, we assess scenarios where consumers weigh travel time less, reflecting improved travel productivity. The results show that speed variations on medium- and long-distance trips, which can be interpreted as policies for highway speed limits and more efficient PT, can induce modal shifts towards 5–10% higher PT demand. Its implied secondary effects across the energy system include a reduced need for electrification of heavy-duty trucks by 11% and a decrease in hydrogen demand in road transportation by 34% by 2050. If travelers weigh costs over travel time, PT becomes less competitive against cars. Thus, electric vehicles (EVs) need to play a more dominant role in decarbonization, with a demand increase of 13% in 2040 (+9.2 billion passenger kilometer (bpkm)) and 6% in 2050 (+5.0 bpkm), along with the need for additional 45,000 public chargers of 22 kW size. Policy implications include the emphasis on improved PT speeds, speed limits on highways, needs to achieve more widespread EV adoption, and the need for balancing travelers' decision factors when aiming for reduced transport CO2 emissions.
Keywords: Energy system model; Mobility; Travel time; Multi-objective optimization; Modal shift; Decarbonization

Parjanay Sharma, Siddhant Jain, Shashank Gupta, Vinay Chamola,
Role of machine learning and deep learning in securing 5G-driven industrial IoT applications,
Ad Hoc Networks,
Volume 123,
2021,
102685,
ISSN 1570-8705,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adhoc.2021.102685.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570870521001906)
Abstract: The Internet of Things (IoT) connects millions of computing devices and has set a stage for future technology where industrial use cases like smart cities and smart houses will operate with minimal human intervention. IoT’s cross-domain amalgamations with emergent technologies like 5G and blockchain affects human life. Hence, increase in reliance over IoT necessitates focus on its privacy and security concerns. Implementing security through encryption, authentication, access control and communication security is the need of the hour. These needs can be best catered with the use of machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL) that can help in realizing secure intelligent systems. In this work, the authors present a comprehensive review for securing Industrial-IoT (I-IoT) devices to contribute to the development of security methods for I-IoT deployed over 5G and blockchain. The survey provides a general analysis of the state-of-the-art security implementation and further assesses the product life cycle of IoT devices. The authors present numerous virtues as well as faults in the machine learning and deep learning algorithms deployed over the fog architecture in context with the security solutions. The potential security algorithms can help overcome many challenges in the IoT security and pave way for implementation with emerging technologies like 5G, blockchain, edge computing, fog computing and their use cases for creating smart environments.
Keywords: Industrial internet of things; Security; Machine learning; Deep learning; Artificial intelligence; Block chain; Smart city

Jianfeng Zhang, Wensheng Zhang, Jingdong Xu,
Bandwidth-efficient multi-task AI inference with dynamic task importance for the Internet of Things in edge computing,
Computer Networks,
Volume 216,
2022,
109262,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2022.109262.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128622003280)
Abstract: Over the past years, artificial intelligence (AI) models have been utilized for the Internet of Things (IoT) in applications such as remote assistance based on augmented reality (AR) in smart factories, as well as powerline inspection and precision agriculture missions performed by unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Due to the limited battery capacity and computing power of these devices (e.g., AR glasses and UAVs), edge computing is recognized as a means to empower the Internet of Things (IoT) with AI. Considering that multiple AI model inference tasks (e.g., point cloud classification and fault detection) are typically performed on the same stream of sensory data (e.g., UAV camera feed), we propose TORC (Tasks-Oriented Edge Computing) to reduce the bandwidth requirement. By incorporating AI into data transmission, the lightweight framework of TORC preserves edge computing servers’ ability to reconstruct/restore data into the original form, ensuring the proper coexistence of AI inference tasks and traditional non-AI tasks like human inspection, as well as simultaneous localization and mapping. It encodes and decodes sensory data with neural networks, whose training is driven by the AI inference tasks, in order to reduce bandwidth consumption and latency without impairing the accuracy of the AI inference tasks. Additionally, taking into account the mobility of the IoT and changes in the environment, TORC can adapt to variation in the bandwidth budget, as well as the temporally dynamic importance of AI inference tasks, without the need to train multiple neural networks for each setting. As a demonstration, empirical results conducted on the Cityscapes dataset and tasks related to autonomous driving show that, at the same level of accuracy, TORC reduces the bandwidth consumption by up to 48% and latency by up to 26%.
Keywords: Internet of Things; Edge computing; Edge intelligence; Multi-task learning

Rajvikram Madurai Elavarasan, Rishi Pugazhendhi, Taskin Jamal, Joanna Dyduch, M.T. Arif, Nallapaneni Manoj Kumar, GM Shafiullah, Shauhrat S. Chopra, Mithulananthan Nadarajah,
Envisioning the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through the lens of energy sustainability (SDG 7) in the post-COVID-19 world,
Applied Energy,
Volume 292,
2021,
116665,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.116665.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261921001951)
Abstract: The United Nations (UN) have formulated seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and thus, humans were trying to traverse the sustainable path. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 pandemic has emerged and forced out the ephemeral conventional approaches. Thus, the post-COVID world indicates the need for sustainable development and strategies in par with the ecosystem. The authors propose this study as a guide to direct the post-pandemic scenario into the sustainable pathway by prioritizing energy sustainability to engage the actions for achieving the SDGs. The analysis in this study commences with the investigation of pronounced impacts in the energy sector with its influence on the progress towards sustainability. To pursue the path of energy sustainability, a qualitative analysis is performed in a parallel approach from the key viewpoint of the renewable and sustainable energy transition, digital transformation of the energy sector and energy affordability in the post-COVID world. A SWOT-AHP hybrid methodology is employed to identify the significance of each strategy or issues to be focused on immediately in the post-COVID world. The study also discusses energy sustainability from political bodies and policy makers’ perspective, and the actual scenario where we are headed is revealed with the aid of process-tracing method. Furthermore, a novel quantitative analysis is established to represent the SDG’s interaction and the result shows that the SDG 7 is the underpinning goal in relative to other SDGs. In context with it, the mapping of energy sustainability to the sustainable world is accomplished. The ultimate inference from envisioning the SDGs through energy sustainability shows that a sustainable world would result after the pandemic. However, the changes in the energy market, investment preferences and more importantly, the decisions influenced by the political bodies in the post-COVID-world is decisive in achieving the same in a stipulated time frame.
Keywords: Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs); Energy sustainability; SDG 7; Renewable energy transition; Energy policies; Energy affordability; Digitalization; SDG interaction

Jessica McCarthy, S.R. Chaudhry, Perumal Kuppuudaiyar, Radhika Loomba, Siobhan Clarke,
QoSA-ICN: An information-centric approach to QoS in vehicular environments,
Vehicular Communications,
Volume 30,
2021,
100351,
ISSN 2214-2096,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vehcom.2021.100351.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214209621000206)
Abstract: Heterogeneous content-based traffic distribution motivates Information-Centric Networking (ICN), where content delivery is of primary interest as a prominent solution. However, current work does not address Quality of Service (QoS) provisioning for prioritized traffic, which is required for different applications and content types. This paper extends ICN with data delivery deadline awareness and shapes the forwarding decisions to ensure prioritized packet treatment. The proposed QoS Aware-ICN (QoSA-ICN) classifies requests' priority with their QoS requirements by codifying a QoSInfo object in interest/data packets. QoSA-ICN also extends the existing NDN transmission mode to a converged best route with multi-hop multi-route forwarding, to avoid the overhead of pre-building routes in rapidly changing and dynamic environments. Furthermore, this work expands the network traffic control mechanism to optimally manage the potential impact of QoS on network congestion control. Extensive simulations results show a 3.5x and 1.2x improvement in data delivery time; and 13.5x and 4.6x reduction in packet loss when compared to DRSC-based native IP and NDN approaches, in networks of different sizes. Through simulations, we also found that QoSA-ICN reduces overall content retrieval time and packet loss while achieving a high ratio of successfully-received priority packets as compared to the existing techniques T-Move, MAP-Me and pNDN.
Keywords: Information Centric Networking (ICN); Quality of Service (QoS); Packet prioritization and deadline awareness

Réda Nouacer, Mahmoud Hussein, Huascar Espinoza, Yassine Ouhammou, Matheus Ladeira, Rodrigo Castiñeira,
Towards a framework of key technologies for drones,
Microprocessors and Microsystems,
Volume 77,
2020,
103142,
ISSN 0141-9331,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micpro.2020.103142.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0141933120303094)
Abstract: The potential applications for drones, especially those in manned areas or into non-segregated airspace, are currently not possible without the development and validation of certain key enabling technologies: “detect and avoid”, “air traffic management”, “command and control (C2) link”, and “security and cyber resilience”. This issue has a high impact on European innovation as identified by SESAR JU and demands R&D investments and incentives for the convergence of shared technologies and markets. In this paper, we discuss the vision of COMP4DRONES project to complement SESAR JU efforts with a particular focus on safe software and hardware drone architectures. COMP4DRONES will bear a holistically designed ecosystem ranging from application to electronic components. The ecosystem aims at supporting (1) efficient customization and incremental assurance of drone-embedded platforms, (2) safe autonomous decision making concerning individual or cooperative missions, (3) trustworthy drone-to-drone and drone-to- ground communications even in presence of malicious attackers and under the intrinsic platform constraints, and (4) agile and cost-effective design and assurance of drone modules and systems. Lead applications driving ecosystem development and benchmarking on the fields of transport, inspection, logistic, precision agriculture, and parcel delivery will be produced.
Keywords: Drones; Automation and Control Systems; Composition; Autonomy; Security; Safety; Interoperability

Nanyi Wang, Di Shi, Zengrui Li, Pingting Chen, Xipei Ren,
Investigating emotional design of the intelligent cockpit based on visual sequence data and improved LSTM,
Advanced Engineering Informatics,
Volume 61,
2024,
102557,
ISSN 1474-0346,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2024.102557.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474034624002052)
Abstract: To enhance affective experience and customer satisfaction in the intelligent cockpit of new energy vehicle (NEV-IC), this article proposes a novel method that combines the visual sequence data of eye movements with the sentiment prediction using improved Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM). Specifically, we used eye-tracking technology to capture users' visual sequence of design morphology for NEV-IC. We then adopted entropy-TOPSIS to compute the ranking of morphological components based on experts’ opinions, establishing the coupling between users' visual perception and experts' opinion to obtain the key morphological dataset of NEV-IC based on user visual sequence. To tackle the shortcomings of LSTM, meanwhile, we employed the sparrow search algorithm (SSA) to optimize the hyperparameters of the LSTM model. Moreover, an attention mechanism has been introduced to address LSTM's difficulty in preserving key information when processing the sequential data, enabling a stronger focus on critical sequential features within the user's visual path. To assess the efficacy of the proposed SSA-LSTM-Attention model, a dataset incorporating user emotional imagery was constructed, within the research framework of Kansei engineering (KE). This dataset, in conjunction with the morphological dataset of visual sequential features, was applied to our model. The study results indicated that compared to traditional machine learning models like BP neural network (BPNN), support vector regression (SVR), and LSTM, our model performed better in capturing the nonlinear relationship between user sentiment and design features. Additionally, it exhibited higher predictive accuracy, better generalization ability and stronger robustness.
Keywords: New energy vehicles; Intelligent cockpit design; Visual sequence; SSA-LSTM-Attention; Kansei engineering

Larasmoyo Nugroho, Rika Andiarti, Rini Akmeliawati, Ali Türker Kutay, Diva Kartika Larasati, Sastra Kusuma Wijaya,
Optimization of reward shaping function based on genetic algorithm applied to a cross validated deep deterministic policy gradient in a powered landing guidance problem,
Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence,
Volume 120,
2023,
105798,
ISSN 0952-1976,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2022.105798.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197622007886)
Abstract: One major capability of a Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) agent to control a specific vehicle in an environment without any prior knowledge is decision-making based on a well-designed reward shaping function. An important but little-studied major factor that can alter significantly the training reward score and performance outcomes is the reward shaping function. To maximize the control efficacy of a DRL algorithm, an optimized reward shaping function and a solid hyperparameter combination are essential. In order to achieve optimal control during the powered descent guidance (PDG) landing phase of a reusable launch vehicle, the Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG) algorithm is used in this paper to discover the best shape of the reward shaping function (RSF). Although DDPG is quite capable of managing complex environments and producing actions intended for continuous spaces, its state and action performance could still be improved. A reference DDPG agent with the original reward shaping function and a PID controller were placed side by side with the GA-DDPG agent using GA-optimized RSF. The best GA-DDPG individual can maximize overall rewards and minimize state errors with the help of the potential-based GA(PbGA) searched RSF, maintaining the highest fitness score among all individuals after has been cross-validated and retested extensively Monte-Carlo experimental results.
Keywords: Reward shaping function; GA-search; DDPG; Fitness; Reusable launch vehicle

Tina Sever, Giuseppe Contissa,
Automated driving regulations – where are we now?,
Transportation Research Interdisciplinary Perspectives,
Volume 24,
2024,
101033,
ISSN 2590-1982,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trip.2024.101033.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590198224000198)
Abstract: Self-driving vehicles are a tool that contributes significantly to sustainable development, both nationally and globally, as their positive effects extend beyond national borders. For their wider use, we need an appropriate regulatory framework as well as certain technical capabilities. It is not only technically sophisticated vehicles that are important, but also the infrastructure that supports automated driving. This paper analyses the legal frameworks of selected states, aside from those frameworks at international and EU level. The research indicates that national regulations often concentrate on the testing phase of automated vehicles. Furthermore, these rules frequently require a certain degree of driver involvement, highlighting that some form of human control remains essential. It seems that regulation does not match the speed of technological development or is sometimes somehow unsynchronized with it.
Keywords: Accountability; Automated vehicle; Driver; Safety standards; Self-driving car; Traffic laws

Abdulla Al Masud, Abu Reza Md Towfiqul Islam, Abdullah Al Mamun, G.M. Monirul Alam, Alireza Arabameri, A.B.M. Mainul Bari, Subodh Chandra Pal, Md Refat Jahan Rakib, Venkatramanan Senapathi, Md Bodrud-Doza, Abubakr M. Idris, Guilherme Malafaia,
A new approach from public behavioral attitudes and perceptions towards microplastics: Influencing factors, and policy proposals,
Ocean & Coastal Management,
Volume 253,
2024,
107144,
ISSN 0964-5691,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ocecoaman.2024.107144.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0964569124001297)
Abstract: This research paper addresses the urgent environmental concern of microplastic (MP) emissions, focusing on the behavioral attitudes and perceptions of the general populace in Shyamnagar Upazila, Bangladesh. Against the backdrop of escalating MP pollution globally, this study investigates the level of awareness and the factors influencing public engagement in mitigating MP prevalence. Leveraging survey data from 350 respondents, the ordered logistic regression (OLR) and boosted regression tree (BRT) models are employed for comprehensive data analysis. The findings expose a concerning lack of awareness about MPs, as only 12% of respondents possessed prior knowledge, and a notable 63% remained uninformed about MP pollution. The OLR model reveals a positive correlation between heightened awareness of MPs and an increased willingness to take action. Gender differences become evident, with women exhibiting greater willingness than men to mitigate MP emissions, and environmental practitioners displaying heightened motivation. The BRT model underscores construction materials and industrial pollution as the primary influential factors amplifying MP pollution. These insights not only illuminate the existing scenario but also provide a basis for fostering favorable behavioral attitudes and perceptions to mitigate the prevalence of MPs within the coastal milieu.
Keywords: Microplastic emission; Public perception; Coastal mangrove region; Ordered logistic regression model; Boosted regression trees

Zaina Abuabed, Ahmad Alsadeh, Adel Taweel,
STRIDE threat model-based framework for assessing the vulnerabilities of modern vehicles,
Computers & Security,
Volume 133,
2023,
103391,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2023.103391.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404823003012)
Abstract: Modern automobiles are becoming increasingly sophisticated with enhanced features. Modern car systems have hundreds of millions of lines of code, which increase the attack surface. To address this concern, this paper proposes a new cybersecurity analysis framework that complies with the ISO/SAE 21434:2021 standard. The framework uses the Spoofing, Tampering, Repudiation, Information disclosure, Denial of service, and Elevation of privileges (STRIDE) threat model, the Attack Tree Analysis (ATA) approach, and the Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) as a key score exploitation matrix to rate identified potential threats. To evaluate, the framework was applied, to real-life scenarios, to examine the possible cyber threats in Advanced Driver-Assistance Systems (ADAS). To assess, a tool was implemented to automate threat impact ratings, according to safety, operational, financial, privacy, and legislative metrics. It also automates attack feasibility ratings considering attack vectors, complexity, authentication, and risk level identification based on a five-by-five risk matrix. As a result, 199 potential threats were identified and addressed in, four targeted, ADAS-related use cases. For the Lane-Keeping safety-critical use case, as an example, five security requirements were elicited as countermeasures. These results show that ADAS in modern vehicles are vulnerable to cyberattacks.
Keywords: Attack tree; Cybersecurity for vehicles; Exploitability; Impact rating; Risk analysis; Risk matrix; Threat modeling

Eduardo Candela, Olivier Doustaly, Leandro Parada, Felix Feng, Yiannis Demiris, Panagiotis Angeloudis,
Risk-aware controller for autonomous vehicles using model-based collision prediction and reinforcement learning,
Artificial Intelligence,
Volume 320,
2023,
103923,
ISSN 0004-3702,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.artint.2023.103923.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0004370223000693)
Abstract: Autonomous Vehicles (AVs) have the potential to save millions of lives and increase the efficiency of transportation services. However, the successful deployment of AVs requires tackling multiple challenges related to modeling and certifying safety. State-of-the-art decision-making methods usually rely on end-to-end learning or imitation learning approaches, which still pose significant safety risks. Hence the necessity of risk-aware AVs that can better predict and handle dangerous situations. Furthermore, current approaches tend to lack explainability due to their reliance on end-to-end Deep Learning, where significant causal relationships are not guaranteed to be learned from data. This paper introduces a novel risk-aware framework for training AV agents using a bespoke collision prediction model and Reinforcement Learning (RL). The collision prediction model is based on Gaussian Processes and vehicle dynamics, and is used to generate the RL state vector. Using an explicit risk model increases the post-hoc explainability of the AV agent, which is vital for reaching and certifying the high safety levels required for AVs and other safety-sensitive applications. Experimental results obtained with a simulator and state-of-the-art RL algorithms show that the risk-aware RL framework decreases average collision rates by 15%, makes AVs more robust to sudden harsh braking situations, and achieves better performance in both safety and speed when compared to a standard rule-based method (the Intelligent Driver Model). Moreover, the proposed collision prediction model outperforms other models in the literature.
Keywords: Autonomous vehicles; Decision making; Risk-aware AI; Reinforcement learning; Model-based prediction; Explainable AI

Haining Wang, Liang Zhao, Hong Zhang, Yuchong Qian, Yiming Xiang, Zhixing Luo, Zixiao Wang,
Carbon emission analysis of precast concrete building Construction: A study on component transportation phase using Artificial Neural Network,
Energy and Buildings,
Volume 301,
2023,
113708,
ISSN 0378-7788,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2023.113708.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378778823009386)
Abstract: Off-site construction has been widely adopted for its carbon reduction potential. However, the emissions from its transportation stage are not fully explored. Given the rising prominence of Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs), this study explores their potential carbon reduction benefits during the transportation of prefabricated components by comparing emissions from Fossil Vehicles (FVs) and BEVs. An Artificial-Neural-Network-based emission model is developed to estimate the carbon emissions of both vehicle types. Specifically, the model collects the real-time carbon emission dynamics across varying external conditions, encompassing diverse transportation constraints, vehicle operational statuses, and road conditions. By employing a supervised learning framework, the transportation carbon emission coefficient of prefabricated components is determined. Comparative analysis reveals that BEVs consistently outperforms FVs, achieving a peak reduction rate of 47.76%. The negative correlation between the reduction rate of BEVs and factors like average speed and load rate underscores BEVs' advantage in urban transportation scenarios, where these factors tend to be low. Hence, the integration of BEVs in the transportation of prefabricated components is advocated. This study provides robust carbon emissions coefficients for BEVs in the transportation of prefabricated components, filling the gap in current estimation methods. These coefficients present a valuable tool for researchers, aiding in the accurate estimation of transportation carbon emissions and fostering the conceptualization of innovative carbon reduction tactics through BEV adoption.
Keywords: Carbon Emission; Prefabricated Component Transportation; Battery Electric Vehicle; Artificial Neural Network; Precast Concrete Building

Subasish Das, Abbas Sheykhfard, Jinli Liu, Md Nasim Khan,
Understanding non-motorists' views on automated vehicle safety through Bayesian network analysis and latent dirichlet allocation,
International Journal of Transportation Science and Technology,
2023,
,
ISSN 2046-0430,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijtst.2023.06.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2046043023000515)
Abstract: Automated vehicles (AVs) hold great promise for creating a safer, more efficient, equitable, and sustainable transportation system. However, the rapid adoption of AVs requires a thorough understanding of their coexistence with the human environment in the current roadway network, particularly with respect to interactions between AVs and non-motorists. Bike Pittsburgh (BikePGH) conducted a 2019 survey to examine non-motorists' perceptions of AV safety. Using Bayesian Network (BN) analysis, the study identified key factors such as safety perception, AV technology knowledge, and real-world interaction experiences that influence non-motorists' overall perception of AV safety using BikePGH survey data. The study also explored several counterfactual scenarios to gain insights into non-motorists' viewpoints on AV safety. Notably, the study found that differences in the ways AVs and human-driven vehicles interacted with non-motorists at intersections played a crucial role in shaping survey participants' opinions. By taking into account the key insights identified in this study, policymakers can develop evidence-based strategies to achieve sustainable urban mobility goals while ensuring the safety and well-being of all road users, particularly non-motorists.
Keywords: Non-motorists; Automated vehicles; Safety; BikePGH survey; Bayesian network analysis

Tawfiq M. Aljohani, Ahmed Ebrahim, Osama Mohammed,
Real-Time metadata-driven routing optimization for electric vehicle energy consumption minimization using deep reinforcement learning and Markov chain model,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 192,
2021,
106962,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2020.106962.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779620307604)
Abstract: A real-time, data-driven electric vehicle (EVs) routing optimization to achieve energy consumption minimization is proposed in this work. The proposed framework utilizes the concept of Double Deep Q-learning Network (DDQN) in learning the maximum travel policy of the EV as an agent. The policy model is trained to estimate the agent's optimal action per the obtained reward signals and Q-values, representing the feasible routing options. The agent's energy requirement on the road is assessed following Markov Chain Model (MCM), with Markov's unit step represented as the average energy consumption that takes into consideration the different driving patterns, agent's surrounding environment, road conditions, and applicable restrictions. The framework offers a better exploration strategy, continuous learning ability, and the adoption of individual routing preferences. A real-time simulation in the python environment that considered real-life driving data from Google's API platform is performed. Results obtained for two geographically different drives show that the proposed energy consumption minimization framework reduced the energy utilization of the EVs to reach its intended destination by 5.89% and 11.82%, compared with Google's proposed routes originally. Both drives started at 4.30 PM on April 25th, 2019, in Los Angeles, California, and Miami, Florida, to reach EV's charging stations that are located six miles away from both of the starting locations.
Keywords: Energy minimization framework; Artificial intelligence (AI); Electric vehicles (EVs); Routing optimization; Markov Chain Model (MCM); Reinforcement Learning (RL); Google's API platform; Double Deep Q-Network (DDQN)

Alcardo Alex Barakabitze, Arslan Ahmad, Rashid Mijumbi, Andrew Hines,
5G network slicing using SDN and NFV: A survey of taxonomy, architectures and future challenges,
Computer Networks,
Volume 167,
2020,
106984,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2019.106984.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128619304773)
Abstract: The increasing consumption of multimedia services and the demand of high-quality services from customers has triggered a fundamental change in how we administer networks in terms of abstraction, separation, and mapping of forwarding, control and management aspects of services. The industry and the academia are embracing 5G as the future network capable to support next generation vertical applications with different service requirements. To realize this vision in 5G network, the physical network has to be sliced into multiple isolated logical networks of varying sizes and structures which are dedicated to different types of services based on their requirements with different characteristics and requirements (e.g., a slice for massive IoT devices, smartphones or autonomous cars, etc.). Softwarization using Software-Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Function Virtualization (NFV)in 5G networks are expected to fill the void of programmable control and management of network resources. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive review and updated solutions related to 5G network slicing using SDN and NFV. Firstly, we present 5G service quality and business requirements followed by a description of 5G network softwarization and slicing paradigms including essential concepts, history and different use cases. Secondly, we provide a tutorial of 5G network slicing technology enablers including SDN, NFV, MEC, cloud/Fog computing, network hypervisors, virtual machines & containers. Thidly, we comprehensively survey different industrial initiatives and projects that are pushing forward the adoption of SDN and NFV in accelerating 5G network slicing. A comparison of various 5G architectural approaches in terms of practical implementations, technology adoptions and deployment strategies is presented. Moreover, we provide a discussion on various open source orchestrators and proof of concepts representing industrial contribution. The work also investigates the standardization efforts in 5G networks regarding network slicing and softwarization. Additionally, the article presents the management and orchestration of network slices in a single domain followed by a comprehensive survey of management and orchestration approaches in 5G network slicing across multiple domains while supporting multiple tenants. Furthermore, we highlight the future challenges and research directions regarding network softwarization and slicing using SDN and NFV in 5G networks.
Keywords: 5G; SDN; NFV; Network slicing; Cloud/edge computing; Network softwarization

Morteza Nazari-Heris, Abdolah Loni, Somayeh Asadi, Behnam Mohammadi-ivatloo,
Toward social equity access and mobile charging stations for electric vehicles: A case study in Los Angeles,
Applied Energy,
Volume 311,
2022,
118704,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2022.118704.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261922001660)
Abstract: Electric vehicles (EVs) are considered a substitute for fossil-fueled vehicles due to rising fossil fuel prices and accompanying environmental concerns, and their use is predicted to increase dramatically shortly. However, the widespread use of EVs and their large-scale integration into the energy system will present several operational and technological hurdles. In the energy industry, an innovative solution known as the EVs smart parking lot (SPL) is introduced to handle EV charging and discharging electricity and energy supply challenges. This paper investigates social equity access and mobile charging stations (MCSs) for EVs, where the owner of MCSs is the EV parking lot. Accordingly, a new self-scheduling model for SPLs is presented in this paper that incorporates scheduling of the MCSs as temporary charging infrastructures while considering social equity access and optimizes SPL energy generation and storage schedule. The main objectives of this research are to (i) develop MCSs accessibility measures and quantify the equity impacts of MCSs locations by modeling prioritized demand based on several indices; (ii) determine the optimal set-points of SPL components (i.e., combined heat and power (CHP), photovoltaic system, electrical and heat-energy storage, and MCSs) to manage electrical peak demand and to maximize the economic benefits of SPLs. Results indicate that the proposed demand prioritization function model can meet the required EV charging demands for prioritized events, and the self-scheduling model for SPLs satisfies the charging demand of the EVs in the SPL location. Also, the social equity access to the EV charging stations is satisfied by analyzing the operation of MCSs around the prioritized demand of the prioritized events and social equity access indices.
Keywords: Electric vehicles (EVs); Transportation electrification; Mobile charging stations; Social equity; EV parking lot; Economic analysis

Aleksandar Bauranov, Jasenka Rakas,
Designing airspace for urban air mobility: A review of concepts and approaches,
Progress in Aerospace Sciences,
Volume 125,
2021,
100726,
ISSN 0376-0421,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.paerosci.2021.100726.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0376042121000312)
Abstract: The article brings together the academic and industry literature on the design and management of urban airspace. We analyze the proposed airspace concepts, identify their strengths and weaknesses, point to gaps in research, and provide recommendations for a more holistic approach to designing urban airspace. We first identify the structural factors that define the size, capacity, and geometry of urban airspace. These factors are grouped into four categories: safety-related factors, social factors, system factors, and aircraft factors. Second, we review different urban airspace concepts proposed around the world. Third, we assess the airspace concepts based on the identified factors. Most of the reviewed airspace concepts are idealized as abstract networks, with an emphasis on maximizing safety and capacity, and with little regard for factors such as technological complexity, noise, or privacy. Additionally, we find that the airspace structure directly influences the level of safety, efficiency, and capacity of airspace. On the one hand, air vehicles in less structured airspace have more degrees of freedom. They can freely choose their position, altitude, heading, and speed, which increases airspace capacity and reduces flying costs. However, these concepts require high technological capabilities, such as dynamic geofences and advanced sense-and-avoid capabilities, to maintain the required safety levels. On the other hand, airspace concepts with fewer degrees of freedom can accommodate less capable aircraft but require strict operation rules and reduced capacity to ensure safety. Finally, the proposed urban air mobility concepts require extensive ground infrastructures, such as take-off and landing pads and communication, navigation, and surveillance infrastructure. There is a need for a new branch of research that analyzes urban air mobility from the perspective of urban planning, including issues around zoning, air rights, public transportation, real estate development, public acceptance, and access inequalities.
Keywords: Advanced air mobility; Urban air mobility; Airspace structure; Airspace design; Safety-capacity tradeoff; Public domain

Asma Ait Ouallane, Assia Bakali, Ayoub Bahnasse, Said Broumi, Mohamed Talea,
Fusion of engineering insights and emerging trends: Intelligent urban traffic management system,
Information Fusion,
Volume 88,
2022,
Pages 218-248,
ISSN 1566-2535,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2022.07.020.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1566253522000859)
Abstract: Traffic congestion is a great concern, especially in urban areas where the vehicles’ number on roads continues to intensify significantly against the slow development of road infrastructure. To resolve this intractable problem, researchers proposed various Traffic Management Systems that rely on the fusion of traffic data sources and emerging technologies to maximize the traffic flow, and thus fluidify the intersections since they are the origin of traffic congestions, and also reroute the vehicles to avoid traffic congestions areas, and thus reduce fuel consumption and air pollution. Although there are many studies on traffic management, there is still a lack of research covering the entire urban road traffic management system. Therefore, this study intends to fill the gap, generating new insight into the state of research related to the entire Traffic Management System. The principal aim of this survey is to provide a complete view of current approaches proposed in the literature to handle the traffic congestion problem. We first supply a review of the body of knowledge in recent years of Traffic Management Systems. Second, we summarize the benefits and drawbacks of the recent literature. Third, we analyze and discuss the three main subsystems of a Traffic Management System and then classify the various contributions according to the subsystem to which they belong. Finally, we present and discuss future research orientations and open issues that need further investigation for a realistic and efficient Traffic Management System.
Keywords: Traffic congestion; Intelligent transportation systems; Smart city; Traffic management system; Artificial intelligence; Emerging technologies

Mohammed A. Fadhel, Ali M. Duhaim, Ahmed Saihood, Ahmed Sewify, Mokhaled N.A. Al-Hamadani, A.S. Albahri, Laith Alzubaidi, Ashish Gupta, Sayedali Mirjalili, Yuantong Gu,
Comprehensive systematic review of information fusion methods in smart cities and urban environments,
Information Fusion,
Volume 107,
2024,
102317,
ISSN 1566-2535,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2024.102317.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1566253524000952)
Abstract: Smart cities result from integrating advanced technologies and intelligent sensors into modern urban infrastructure. The Internet of Things (IoT) and data integration are pivotal in creating interconnected and intelligent urban spaces. In this literature review, we explore the different methods of information fusion used in smart cities, along with their advantages and challenges. However, there are notable challenges in managing diverse data sources, handling large data volumes, and meeting the near-real-time demands of various smart city applications. The review aims to examine smart city applications in detail, incorporating quality evaluation and information fusion techniques and identifying critical issues while outlining promising research directions. In order to accomplish our goal, we conducted a comprehensive search of literature and applied selective criteria. We identified 59 recent studies addressing machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL) techniques in smart city applications. These studies were obtained from various databases such as ScienceDirect (SD), Scopus, Web of Science (WoS), and IEEE Xplore. The main objective of this study is to provide more detailed insights into smart cities by supplementing existing research. The word cloud visualisation of machine learning/deep learning and information fusion in smart cities papers shows a diverse landscape, covering both technical aspects of artificial intelligence and practical applications in urban settings. Apart from technical exploration, the study also delves into the ethical and privacy implications arising in smart cities. Moreover, it thoroughly examines the challenges that must be addressed to realise this urban revolution's potential fully.
Keywords: Information fusion; Smart city; Urban; Transportation; Public safety; Machine learning; Deep learning

Annalisa T. Taylor, Thomas A. Berrueta, Todd D. Murphey,
Active learning in robotics: A review of control principles,
Mechatronics,
Volume 77,
2021,
102576,
ISSN 0957-4158,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mechatronics.2021.102576.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957415821000659)
Abstract: Active learning is a decision-making process. In both abstract and physical settings, active learning demands both analysis and action. This is a review of active learning in robotics, focusing on methods amenable to the demands of embodied learning systems. Robots must be able to learn efficiently and flexibly through continuous online deployment. This poses a distinct set of control-oriented challenges—one must choose suitable measures as objectives, synthesize real-time control, and produce analyses that guarantee performance and safety with limited knowledge of the environment or robot itself. In this work, we survey the fundamental components of robotic active learning systems. We discuss classes of learning tasks that robots typically encounter, measures with which they gauge the information content of observations, and algorithms for generating action plans. Moreover, we provide a variety of examples – from environmental mapping to nonparametric shape estimation – that highlight the qualitative differences between learning tasks, information measures, and control techniques. We conclude with a discussion of control-oriented open challenges, including safety-constrained learning and distributed learning.
Keywords: Active learning; Robotics; Robot control; Learning theory; Perception and sensing; Artificial intelligence

MohammadHanif Dasoomi, Ali Naderan, Tofigh Allahviranloo,
A novel hybrid machine learning model for shopping trip estimation: A case study of Tehran, Iran,
Transportation Engineering,
Volume 14,
2023,
100218,
ISSN 2666-691X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.treng.2023.100218.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666691X23000581)
Abstract: Online and offline shopping trips have a profound impact on various facets of urban life, including e-commerce, transportation systems, and sustainability. To assess the factors shaping consumers' decisions, we introduce a novel hybrid machine learning model that integrates the Gray Wolf Optimization (GWO) algorithm with a deep Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). This model is applied to predict shopping behavior based on a survey of 1000 active e-commerce users residing in areas 2 and 5 of Tehran. These individuals have made successful purchases through both online and offline services during the final 20 days of 2021. The GWO algorithm plays a pivotal role in selecting optimal features and hyperparameters for the deep Convolutional Neural Network, which is a powerful deep learning model for image recognition and classification. Notably, our model achieves an impressive accuracy of 97.81% while maintaining a MSE of 0.325, having identified seven out of ten key features as the most influential. To gage the effectiveness of our approach, we conduct a comparative analysis with alternative methods. The results unequivocally showcase the superiority of our proposed algorithm, which attains an accuracy of 97.81%. In contrast, other models such as CNN, LSTM, MLP, DT, and KNN yield accuracies of 95.63%, 94.04%, 90.12%, 86.49%, and 80.16%, respectively. This study offers valuable insights for transportation planners, e-commerce managers, and policymakers. Its primary objective is to assist them in formulating effective strategies aimed at reducing transportation costs, curbing pollutant emissions, mitigating urban traffic congestion, and enhancing user satisfaction all while fostering sustainable development.
Keywords: Online shopping trip; Offline shopping trips; Gray wolf optimization; Deep neural network model; e-commerce and transportation; Factors affecting shopping trip choice; Sustainable development

Haicheng Liao, Huanming Shen, Zhenning Li, Chengyue Wang, Guofa Li, Yiming Bie, Chengzhong Xu,
GPT-4 enhanced multimodal grounding for autonomous driving: Leveraging cross-modal attention with large language models,
Communications in Transportation Research,
Volume 4,
2024,
100116,
ISSN 2772-4247,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.commtr.2023.100116.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772424723000276)
Abstract: In the field of autonomous vehicles (AVs), accurately discerning commander intent and executing linguistic commands within a visual context presents a significant challenge. This paper introduces a sophisticated encoder-decoder framework, developed to address visual grounding in AVs. Our Context-Aware Visual Grounding (CAVG) model is an advanced system that integrates five core encoders—Text, Emotion, Image, Context, and Cross-Modal—with a multimodal decoder. This integration enables the CAVG model to adeptly capture contextual semantics and to learn human emotional features, augmented by state-of-the-art Large Language Models (LLMs) including GPT-4. The architecture of CAVG is reinforced by the implementation of multi-head cross-modal attention mechanisms and a Region-Specific Dynamic (RSD) layer for attention modulation. This architectural design enables the model to efficiently process and interpret a range of cross-modal inputs, yielding a comprehensive understanding of the correlation between verbal commands and corresponding visual scenes. Empirical evaluations on the Talk2Car dataset, a real-world benchmark, demonstrate that CAVG establishes new standards in prediction accuracy and operational efficiency. Notably, the model exhibits exceptional performance even with limited training data, ranging from 50% to 75% of the full dataset. This feature highlights its effectiveness and potential for deployment in practical AV applications. Moreover, CAVG has shown remarkable robustness and adaptability in challenging scenarios, including long-text command interpretation, low-light conditions, ambiguous command contexts, inclement weather conditions, and densely populated urban environments.
Keywords: Autonomous driving; Visual grounding; Cross-modal attention; Large language models; Human-machine interaction

Chun-Chen Chou, Pawinee Iamtrakul, Kento Yoh, Masato Miyata, Kenji Doi,
Determining the role of self-efficacy in sustained behavior change: An empirical study on intention to use community-based electric ride-sharing,
Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice,
Volume 179,
2024,
103921,
ISSN 0965-8564,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tra.2023.103921.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0965856423003415)
Abstract: This study aims to explore the role of travel-related self-efficacy in sustained behavior change. Community-based electric ride-sharing as a pilot project has been introduced to reduce residents’ reliance on private cars in Bangkok, Thailand. This study integrated the Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB), Technology Acceptance Model (TAM), and goal-framing theory to explain the cognitive process from intending a trial ride to sustaining behavioral change to substitute present travel modes. A sample of 101 valid responses was collected from the service users. The findings show a pivotal role of travel-related self-efficacy in encouraging users to keep using the promoted service by finding eudaimonic and normative goals during the intervention. Multi-group analysis was further applied to examine the moderating roles of transport mode preferences on hypothesized relationships. Pilot service users showed overall high self-efficacy associated with community-based mobility, and the stated self-efficacy was positively related to the intention to sustain behavior change. However, a drastic decrease was shown in user intention to pay for the service. Additional evidence was given to inform the importance of an affordable mobility service to secure residents’ self-efficacy in daily transport. Based on research findings, this study provides recommendations on practical applications and future research directions.
Keywords: Self-efficacy; Sustainable transport; Eudaimonic well-being; Affordable mobility; Theory of planned behavior; Goal-framing theory

Ryan S. Tulabing, Brian C. Mitchell, Grant A. Covic,
Localized management of distributed flexible energy resources,
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
Volume 157,
2024,
109790,
ISSN 0142-0615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2024.109790.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142061524000115)
Abstract: The integration of distributed energy resources continues to be a challenge for the traditional electricity grid. Aside from additional variability in the net power demand, there is often a temporal discrepancy between generation and consumption schedules which can exacerbate demand peaks and troughs, leading to system overloading, voltage violations, and a low system load factor. This study proposes a control system approach to unify the management of the different types of flexible energy resources through Localized Demand Control. In this system, all flexible energy resources are coordinated using a power line carrier frequency signal to follow a preferred demand curve at the distribution transformer level. The system’s functionality has been confirmed in an actual 5-house microgrid without adverse effects on end-user comfort. Meanwhile, scaled-up simulation studies have shown improvements in the system load factor by as much as 189%, and increased hosting capacity by 40% for electric vehicles and 16% for solar photovoltaic panels.
Keywords: Smart grid; Demand response; DER integration; Demand-side management; Localized demand control

Frederic Jacob, Eric H. Grosse, Stefan Morana, Cornelius J. König,
Picking with a robot colleague: A systematic literature review and evaluation of technology acceptance in human–robot collaborative warehouses,
Computers & Industrial Engineering,
Volume 180,
2023,
109262,
ISSN 0360-8352,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2023.109262.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360835223002863)
Abstract: Just-in-time delivery, shorter product life cycles, demographic changes, and the Covid-19 pandemic have driven the industrial application of collaborative robots in warehouses. These robots work alongside humans, increasing their productivity and relieving them of repetitive or strenuous tasks. However, human workers can be reluctant to collaborate with robots owing to certain fears; for example, they may be concerned about job loss, stress, expected effort, or risk to physical integrity. These concerns can negatively impact the acceptance of human–robot collaboration (HRC). As the literature on this topic is fragmented, this study analyzes HRC acceptance in warehouses based on the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology. We identify, classify, and analyze studies examining HRC acceptance in warehouses using a systematic literature review methodology. A framework is established to guide the analysis of performance expectancy, effort expectancy, (perceived) occupational safety, psychosocial, and legal and privacy factors. The results indicate the importance of corporate infrastructure and consideration of cognitive factors in particular. The findings of this study will support future research on HRC in warehouses and provide guidance for managers regarding HRC applicability.
Keywords: Acceptance; Warehousing 4.0; Cobot; Human–Robot Collaboration; Systematic Literature Review

Niharika Keshari, Dinesh Singh, Ashish Kumar Maurya,
A survey on Vehicular Fog Computing: Current state-of-the-art and future directions,
Vehicular Communications,
Volume 38,
2022,
100512,
ISSN 2214-2096,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vehcom.2022.100512.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214209622000596)
Abstract: Vehicular fog computing (VFC) enhances Intelligent Traffic System (ITS) by computing the real-time traffic information for accident alerts, path navigation and etc. It utilizes parked and moving vehicles as a fog node to perform computation rather than the core cloud. VFC consumes less bandwidth, decreased response time, and congestion of core cloud due to sort distance. VFC performs resource allocation to select the appropriate vehicle for computation according to the available computational resource. It performs data retrieval operations to transfer traffic data from vehicle to vehicular fog because direct communication is limited by the transmission range of the vehicle. VFC faces various issues during resource allocation and data retrieval operation such as vehicle's high mobility, dynamic topology and etc. This causes uneven resource distribution due to inefficient resource allocation and late data delivery due to unfeasible data retrieval. The security and privacy leakage of traffic data threaten due to sharing in vehicular fog. To overcome these issues, we provide in-depth exploration at each phase of the VFC operation. Hence, we present a new classification of VFC operation, which classifies the challenges every phase such as resource allocation in task division, scheduling, and load balancing; result-retrieval in phase, node selector, node selection and path recovery; secure data sharing in authentication, encipherment, auditing, and data privacy. This state-of-the-art gives a better understanding of open research issues and future direction to efficiently handle the computation at VFC.
Keywords: Vehicular Ad-hoc Network (VANET); Vehicular Fog Computing (VFC); Computation offloading; Resource allocation; Data-retrieval; Secure data sharing

Paola Vargas, Iris Tien,
Impacts of 5G on cyber-physical risks for interdependent connected smart critical infrastructure systems,
International Journal of Critical Infrastructure Protection,
Volume 42,
2023,
100617,
ISSN 1874-5482,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijcip.2023.100617.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1874548223000306)
Abstract: 5 G technology promises a wide range of benefits for critical infrastructure (CI), including improved reliability, increased efficiency, cost savings, and increased worker safety. However, it also brings many new risks that CI owners and operators must be prepared for to facilitate effective risk mitigation and response. These risks, however, have not been systematically assessed for CI systems. This paper investigates how the cyber-physical risk landscape will be impacted by 5 G for four major CI sectors in detail: smart transportation, smart water, smart power, and smart oil and gas networks. Compared to prior work only examining a single CI network, the authors present a comprehensive assessment of the types of threats that these sectors can expect based on past incidents, the new vulnerabilities introduced by 5 G and existing vulnerabilities exacerbated by the introduction of more connected devices, along with mitigation recommendations for each risk. Risks associated with the rollout of and transition to 5 G, risks from 5 G network disruptions, cyberattack risks, and privacy risks are included. While each of the sectors has a unique risk profile, general themes also emerged across multiple CI networks. Notably, there will be an increased number of threat vectors from smart devices reliant on the telecommunications network to provide monitoring and control of infrastructure services. Because many of these devices are accessible by the public, the risk of social engineering attacks and vulnerability to physical hacking are exacerbated. Successful risk mitigation requires collaboration among CI's many stakeholders to implement security measures at the interfaces between connected devices to limit the access to assets in case one security measure is successfully bypassed. Due to the increased interdependencies between CI networks, operators must create backup plans to keep the most essential services running on a smaller bandwidth in case of a 5 G outage or similar failure. As 5 G capabilities continue to develop and the risk landscape evolves, ongoing research is needed and CI owners and operators should be prepared to update security measures to remain ahead of identified risks and threats.
Keywords: 5G; Critical infrastructure; Risk; Resilience; Cybersecurity

Zeyu Li, Changhui Jiang, Xiaobo Gu, Ying Xu,  Feng zhou, Jianhui Cui,
Collaborative positioning for swarms: A brief survey of vision, LiDAR and wireless sensors based methods,
Defence Technology,
Volume 33,
2024,
Pages 475-493,
ISSN 2214-9147,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dt.2023.05.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214914723001368)
Abstract: As positioning sensors, edge computation power, and communication technologies continue to develop, a moving agent can now sense its surroundings and communicate with other agents. By receiving spatial information from both its environment and other agents, an agent can use various methods and sensor types to localize itself. With its high flexibility and robustness, collaborative positioning has become a widely used method in both military and civilian applications. This paper introduces the basic fundamental concepts and applications of collaborative positioning, and reviews recent progress in the field based on camera, LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging), wireless sensor, and their integration. The paper compares the current methods with respect to their sensor type, summarizes their main paradigms, and analyzes their evaluation experiments. Finally, the paper discusses the main challenges and open issues that require further research.
Keywords: Collaborative positioning; Vision; LiDAR; Wireless sensors; Sensor fusion

Tingting Gong, Wujie Zhou, Xiaohong Qian, Jingsheng Lei, Lu Yu,
Global contextually guided lightweight network for RGB-thermal urban scene understanding,
Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence,
Volume 117, Part A,
2023,
105510,
ISSN 0952-1976,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2022.105510.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197622005000)
Abstract: Recent achievements in scene understanding have benefited considerably from the rapid development of convolutional neural networks. However, improvements of scene understanding methods have been restricted in terms of practical deployment, especially in mobile devices, owing to their high computational costs and memory consumption. Existing networks can integrate RGB and thermal (RGB-T) cues for sample fusion, resulting in insufficient exploitation of the complicated correlations between the two image modalities. Moreover, some of these methods do not consider the influence of global features on the interactions between low- and high-level features. Hence, in this study, we introduce a novel network named the global contextually guided lightweight network (GCGLNet), which has fewer parameters and higher speed, ensuring accuracy. Specifically, secondary cross-modal integration is introduced to remove redundant information while fusing and propagating effective modal information. A hybrid feature-cascaded aggregation module is also introduced to emphasize the global context along with complementation and calibration between the high- and low-level features. Extensive experiments were conducted on two benchmark RGB-T datasets to demonstrate that the proposed GCGLNet yields an accuracy comparable with those of state-of-the-art approaches when operated at 51.89 FPS for 480 × 640 pixel inputs with only 7.87 M parameters. Thus, GCGLNet is expected to open new avenues for research on urban scene understanding via RGB-T sensors.
Keywords: Scene understanding; RGB-T; Cross-modal integration; Hybrid feature-cascaded aggregation module; Lightweight network

Gokulnath Thandavarayan, Miguel Sepulcre, Javier Gozalvez, Baldomero Coll-Perales,
Scalable cooperative perception for connected and automated driving,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 216,
2023,
103655,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2023.103655.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804523000747)
Abstract: Cooperative perception (a.k.a. Collective perception or cooperative sensing) will allow Connected and Automated Vehicles (CAVs) to share information about detected objects. Cooperative perception improves the sensing accuracy, confidence and range of CAVs, and extends their perception of the driving environment. First message generation rules based on the mobility and dynamics of detected objects have been proposed to decide when a cooperative perception message should be generated and what information it should include. Studies have shown that this type of generation rules can compromise the scalability of cooperative perception and vehicular networks, as they tend to transmit significant amounts of redundant information and generate small and frequent cooperative perception messages that increase the communications overhead. To combat these inefficiencies, this paper proposes and evaluates three techniques that combine, for the first time, baseline mobility-based generation rules for cooperative perception messages with mechanisms to control the redundancy and organize the information about detected objects in order to avoid the frequent transmission of small messages. This study demonstrates that the proposed techniques improve the perception of CAVs and reduce the information age. In addition, the techniques reduce the channel load and improve the scalability of cooperative perception services and vehicular networks. The study demonstrates that the most effective technique is based on: (1) first applying the generation rules to decide whether a cooperative perception message should be generated, (2) then applying redundancy control, and finally (3) organizing the information about all detected objects to avoid small and frequent messages.
Keywords: Cooperative perception; Collective perception; Cooperative sensing; CPS; CPM; Connected automated vehicles; Autonomous vehicles; CAV; RSU; V2X; Vehicular networks; Congestion control; Redundancy mitigation; C-ITS; DCC; ETSI

Kaylani Bochie, Mateus S. Gilbert, Luana Gantert, Mariana S.M. Barbosa, Dianne S.V. Medeiros, Miguel Elias M. Campista,
A survey on deep learning for challenged networks: Applications and trends,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 194,
2021,
103213,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2021.103213.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804521002149)
Abstract: Computer networks are dealing with growing complexity, given the ever-increasing volume of data produced by all sorts of network nodes. Performance improvements are a non-stop ambition and require tuning fine-grained details of the system operation. Analyzing such data deluge, however, is not straightforward and sometimes not supported by the system. There are often problems regarding scalability and the predisposition of the involved nodes to understand and transfer the data. This issue is at least partially circumvented by knowledge acquisition from past experiences, which is a characteristic of the herein called “challenged networks”. The addition of intelligence in these scenarios is fundamental to extract linear and non-linear relationships from the data collected by multiple sources. This is undoubtedly an invitation to machine learning and, more particularly, to deep learning. This paper identifies five different challenged networks: IoT and sensor, mobile, industrial, and vehicular networks as typical scenarios that may have multiple and heterogeneous data sources and face obstacles concerning connectivity. As a consequence, deep learning solutions can contribute to system performance by adding intelligence and the ability to interpret data. We start the paper by providing an overview of deep learning, further explaining this approach’s benefits over the cited scenarios. We propose a workflow based on our observations of deep learning applications over challenged networks, and based on it, we strive to survey the literature on deep-learning-based solutions at an application-oriented level using the PRISMA methodology. Afterward, we also discuss new deep learning techniques that show enormous potential for further improvements as well as transversal issues, such as security. Finally, we provide lessons learned raising trends linking all surveyed papers to deep learning approaches. We are confident that the proposed paper contributes to the state of the art and can be a piece of inspiration for beginners and also for enthusiasts on advanced networking research.
Keywords: Challenged networks; Internet of Things; Sensor networks; Industrial networks; Wireless mobile networks; Vehicular networks; Deep learning; Machine learning

Francesco Casaril, Letterio Galletta,
Securing SatCom user segment: A study on cybersecurity challenges in view of IRIS2,
Computers & Security,
Volume 140,
2024,
103799,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2024.103799.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404824001007)
Abstract: The advancement in communications technologies and recent geopolitical events highlighted the need for fast and reliable satellite communications infrastructure for military and civil security operations. Starting from the case study of the Viasat cyberattack in February 2022, this paper analyzes the common vulnerabilities of the ground and, in particular, user segments in SatCom infrastructures, focusing on modems security, and proposes some best practices and solutions in the field of risk management to prevent such attacks. Moreover, the research compares the standards and the guidelines used in the United States concerning routers and network security with those in the European Union. Our findings highlight the need for clear and effective standards or certification schemes to cyber-proof the new components of IRIS2, the “Infrastructure for Resilience Interconnectivity and Security by Satellite”, Europe's first multi-orbital satellite constellation. This need becomes more compelling, especially in view of the entry into force of the Network and Information Security Directive or NIS2 Directive. We conclude by discussing future research directions and emerging trends in cyber risk management for the SatCom user segment. This paper aims to provide valuable insights into managing cyber risks in critical space infrastructure and can inform future efforts to improve cybersecurity in view of IRIS2.
Keywords: Satellite cybersecurity; SatCom; Space infrastructure; Risk management; Modem security

Hsingyi P. Tsai, Deborah R. Compeau,
Understanding and measuring formal communication quality for technology implementation: A test during the anticipation stage,
The Journal of Strategic Information Systems,
Volume 30, Issue 3,
2021,
101669,
ISSN 0963-8687,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2021.101669.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0963868721000160)
Abstract: Successfully introducing new technologies to employees remains a critical and challenging task for managers. Practitioner and academic research points to the crucial role of formal communication in the success of technology implementation. We developed a scale for measuring formal communication quality and assessed its influence using three samples of working professionals who were anticipating new technologies at work. Informed by the coping model of user adaptation, we examined the direct and indirect effects of formal communication quality during the anticipation stage of a technology implementation project on employees’ cognitions, emotions and intention to connect with colleagues in order to prepare themselves for the new technologies. The results validate our conceptualization of formal communication as a second-order formative construct with information quality in four content areas (i.e., what, how, why and when) as the first-order dimensions. Our findings affirm the role of formal communication as a managerial influence mechanism that positively affects an employee’s preliminary evaluation of a new IT during the anticipation stage. The evaluation of the new IT triggered emotions, and the emotions in turn motivated employees to seek opinions and camaraderie from others as a means of adapting to the new IT. Our post hoc analyses illustrate the dynamic nature of the relationship among formal communication quality, beliefs, emotions and coping intentions as the implementation unfolds. Our work contributes to the literature by improving the operationalization of formal communication quality, expanding the current understanding of seeking social support and revealing new insight about the temporal dynamics of the relationships in the nomological network during the anticipation stage. The validated scale of formal communication can be a useful tool for managers who wish to evaluate the effectiveness of their communication and to assess its impact on employees’ adaptation.
Keywords: Formal communication quality; Anxiety; Enthusiasm; Seeking social support; User adaptation; Scale development

Kapileswar Rana, Narendra Khatri,
Automotive intelligence: Unleashing the potential of AI beyond advance driver assisting system, a comprehensive review,
Computers and Electrical Engineering,
Volume 117,
2024,
109237,
ISSN 0045-7906,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2024.109237.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790624001654)
Abstract: Big data, AI, and machine learning have ushered in a transformative era in computer processing and application. AI's capacity to emulate human cognition spans a spectrum of industries, from rudimentary tasks to intricate decision-making processes. Projections indicate that within a short span, AI technology will bestow computers with human-like capabilities, rendering it indispensable. This advancement has substantially bolstered industry autonomy, fortifying security and safety through the integration of electronics, internet connectivity, advanced algorithms, and cutting-edge processing chips. In this context, Automated Guided Vehicles (AGVs) leverage AI-powered systems and sensors to optimize performance and proactively thwart potential failures. Going beyond Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS), this review scrutinizes the broader spectrum of AI applications. Specifically, it synthesizes pertinent studies encompassing AI's impact on car emissions, predictive maintenance, security, and the realm of connected vehicles. While AGVs can utilize AI algorithms to chart emission-efficient routes and engineer energy-conservative vehicles, AI, through diverse algorithms, proficiently anticipates component failures, substantially enhancing the cost-effectiveness of predictive maintenance and bolstering vehicle reliability. Moreover, AI integrated with sensor technology safeguards vehicles against a spectrum of threats. Neural networks and machine learning further automate security measures for both cargo and passengers. Concurrently, AI and machine learning fortify traffic control and enhance vehicle communication within connected vehicle frameworks, albeit necessitating fortifications in data security, encryption, and system efficiency. This survey paper comprehensively covers the expanse of automotive AI and machine learning applications, extending beyond ADAS. It underscores that the evolving mobility landscape necessitates a thorough evaluation of network architecture, connectivity, and performance metrics, encompassing AGV technology, networking protocols, and swarm dynamics. In this vein, the paper advocates for experts to address existing literature gaps and proactively enhance automotive systems.
Keywords: Artificial intelligence; Machine learning; Autonomous vehicle; Reinforcement learning; CNN; Electric vehicle faults; Vehicle to vehicle communication; Driver monitoring; SVM; ADAS

Leng Han, Lin He, Xia Sun, Zixuan Li, Yi Zhang,
An enhanced adaptive 3D path planning algorithm for mobile robots with obstacle buffering and improved Theta* using minimum snap trajectory smoothing,
Journal of King Saud University - Computer and Information Sciences,
Volume 35, Issue 10,
2023,
101844,
ISSN 1319-1578,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jksuci.2023.101844.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1319157823003981)
Abstract: This study proposes an adaptive robot pathfinding algorithm (MS-W-Theta*) based on fused trajectory smoothing with 3D maps. Firstly, we introduce an obstacle buffer in the 3D map, which includes the height and volume of the AGV when carrying shelves. This enhancement improves the robot's path traversal in narrow spaces. Then, we propose an improved adaptive heuristic function and a cost function to optimize the total cost function of the algorithm, based on the obstacle distribution information on the 3D map. This step increases the purposefulness of the planned path. Finally, the original path is smoothed using a Minimum Snap polynomial algorithm to avoid the unstable speed or jitter phenomenon that may occur during the actual operation of the mobile robot and to improve the stability of the robot operation. The experimental results show that MS-W-Theta* exhibits a significant advantage in terms of running time, and the generated path curves better align with the requirements of real-world mobile robot scenarios. The practicality and high efficiency of the algorithm in path planning for workshop logistics robots are demonstrated through experiments, indicating a reduction in running time by 20 % and an improvement in path alignment by 15 % compared to the baseline algorithm.
Keywords: Robot path planning; Trajectory optimization; Minimum Snap algorithm

Jing Tan, Ramin Khalili, Holger Karl, Artur Hecker,
Multi-agent reinforcement learning for long-term network resource allocation through auction: A V2X application,
Computer Communications,
Volume 194,
2022,
Pages 333-347,
ISSN 0140-3664,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2022.07.047.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140366422003000)
Abstract: We formulate offloading of computational tasks from a dynamic group of mobile agents (e.g., cars) as decentralized decision making among autonomous agents. We design an interaction mechanism that incentivizes such agents to align private and system goals by balancing between competition and cooperation. In the static case, the mechanism provably has Nash equilibria with optimal resource allocation. In a dynamic environment, this mechanism’s requirement of complete information is impossible to achieve. For such environments, we propose a novel multi-agent online learning algorithm that learns with partial, delayed and noisy state information, thus greatly reducing information need. Our algorithm is also capable of learning from long-term and sparse reward signals with varying delay. Empirical results from the simulation of a V2X application confirm that through learning, agents with the learning algorithm significantly improve both system and individual performance, reducing up to 30% of offloading failure rate, communication overhead and load variation, increasing computation resource utilization and fairness. Results also confirm the algorithm’s good convergence and generalization property in different environments.
Keywords: Offloading; Distributed systems; Reinforcement learning; Decentralized decision-making

Héctor Azpúrua, Maíra Saboia, Gustavo M. Freitas, Lillian Clark, Ali-akbar Agha-mohammadi, Gustavo Pessin, Mario F.M. Campos, Douglas G. Macharet,
A Survey on the autonomous exploration of confined subterranean spaces: Perspectives from real-word and industrial robotic deployments,
Robotics and Autonomous Systems,
Volume 160,
2023,
104304,
ISSN 0921-8890,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.robot.2022.104304.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921889022001932)
Abstract: Confined and subterranean areas are common in many civilian and industrial sites, although they are hazardous for humans given the presence of noxious gases, extreme temperatures, narrow spaces, unhealthy oxygen levels, flooding, and collapsing structures. Therefore, exploration, routine inspections, and surveillance tasks can benefit from using autonomous mobile robots to improve safety by reducing the presence of humans in those scenarios. However, despite advances in the field, there are still challenges to overcome for confined and subterranean robot operation. Real word robotic exploration requires robust and reliable map generation, precise localization, safe navigation, and efficient path planning. These requirements make exploration in complex 3D environments with rugged terrain difficult. The challenge is increased when considering multi-robot teams, as there is no guarantee of a functional network infrastructure. Despite consistent increasing interest in the area, there is a lack of research summarizing the results and best practices for exploring such environments. Therefore, in this paper, we provide a review and discuss state-of-the-art robotic exploration techniques, including single and cooperative approaches with homogeneous and heterogeneous teams, with a focus on complex subterranean and confined 3D scenarios. We also present a comprehensive list of insights on open challenges and possible directions for future investigation in the topic.
Keywords: Robot exploration; Confined and subterranean spaces; GPS-denied scenarios; Multi-robot exploration

Amrita Ghosal, Mauro Conti,
Security issues and challenges in V2X: A Survey,
Computer Networks,
Volume 169,
2020,
107093,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2019.107093.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128619305857)
Abstract: In its latest report, the United States National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) registered some 37,300 fatalities for the yearly victims of motor vehicle accidents in 2017. Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) is playing an important role in improving road safety, traffic efficiency and infotainment systems. With the growth of the connected vehicle technology, V2X is emerging as a key component in the rapid rise of this technology. Therefore, researchers think that development of robust wireless communication through efficient V2X technologies can significantly improve the vehicular environment. The highly dynamic environment and the mobility factor appear to be challenging for implementation of V2X technology. Similar to other wireless technology, the security issues are also key concerns in V2X. In this survey, we highlight and discuss the main security issues of V2X. Particularly, the main objective of this survey is providing for a comprehensive and structured outline of different research directions and approaches, mostly emphasizing on the security issues and challenges in V2X communication technologies. At first, we discuss the key features of V2X and focus on the standardization techniques used for communication technologies. Then, we introduce the security challenges and requirements of V2X. We also classify present state-of-the-art works dealing with implementing different secured techniques in V2X. We further discuss the project implementation that concentrated on the various applications in V2X. Finally, we identify possible future research directions of V2X, particularly in the area of security.
Keywords: Vehicle-to-Everything; Dedicated short range communication; Wireless access in vehicular environments; Long term evolution

Xue Wang, Zheng Guan, Wenhua Qian, Jinde Cao, Shu Liang, Jin Yan,
CS2Fusion: Contrastive learning for Self-Supervised infrared and visible image fusion by estimating feature compensation map,
Information Fusion,
Volume 102,
2024,
102039,
ISSN 1566-2535,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2023.102039.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S156625352300355X)
Abstract: In infrared and visible image fusion (IVIF), prior knowledge constraints established with image-level information often ignore the identity and differences between source image features and cannot fully utilize the complementary information role of infrared images to visible images. For this purpose, this study develops a Contrastive learning-based Self-Supervised fusion model (CS2Fusion), which considers infrared images as a complement to visible images, and develops a Compensation Perception Network (CPN) to guide the backbone network to generate fusion images by estimating the feature compensation map of infrared images. The core idea behind this method is based on the following observations: (1) there is usually a significant disparity in semantic information between different modalities; (2) despite the large semantic differences, the distribution of self-correlation and saliency features tends to be similar among the same modality features. Building upon these observations, we use self-correlation and saliency operation (SSO) to construct positive and negative pairs, driving CPN to perceive the complementary features of infrared images relative to visible images under the constraint of contrastive loss. CPN also incorporates a self-supervised learning mechanism, where visually impaired areas are simulated by randomly cropping patches from visible images to provide more varied information of the same scene to form multiple positive samples to enhance the model’s fine-grained perception capability. In addition, we also designed a demand-driven module (DDM) in the backbone network, which actively queries to improve the information between layers in the image reconstruction, and then integrates more spatial structural information. Notably, the CPN as an auxiliary network is only used in training to drive the backbone network to complete the IVIF in a self-supervised form. Experiments on various benchmark datasets and high-level vision tasks demonstrate the superiority of our CS2Fusion over the state-of-the-art IVIF method.
Keywords: Image fusion; Contrastive learning; Feature compensation map; Identity and divergence

Yaowen Pei, Feng Chen, Tao Ma, Gonghui Gu,
A comparative review study on the electrified road structures: Performances, sustainability, and prospects,
Structures,
Volume 62,
2024,
106185,
ISSN 2352-0124,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.istruc.2024.106185.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352012424003370)
Abstract: The electrified road (eRoad) technology, which allows for delivering electrical power to electric vehicles (EVs) in motion, has been under active development as a novel charging solution, with a great potential to eliminate EV’s range anxiety and to reduce the battery dependency. Three promising eRoad technologies, including pantograph, conductive rail, and the inductive power transfer (IPT), have gained momentum. In this review, the following studies are performed: (1) a comparative analysis of the three eRoad technologies is made by focusing on the working principles, performances as well as technology readiness levels (TRLs). (2) From the perspective of road infrastructure, the potential structural compatibility issues are extensively discussed; the recommendations and emerging research needs, which could improve the eRoads’ service lifetime, are further presented. (3) Life cycle sustainability potential for the three eRoad solutions are comparably analyzed, emphasizing as well the importance of integrating eRoad infrastructure into the full life cycle assessment on the use of EVs for clean transport. (4) In the context of the drastic development of smart road systems, potential synergistic development of eRoad with other novel technologies is envisioned.
Keywords: Electrified road; Road structure; Sustainability; Smart road

Carlo Sau, Claudia Rinaldi, Luigi Pomante, Francesca Palumbo, Giacomo Valente, Tiziana Fanni, Marcos Martinez, Frank van der Linden, Twan Basten, Marc Geilen, Geran Peeren, Jiří Kadlec, Pekka Jääskeläinen, Lubomír Bulej, Francisco Barranco, Jukka Saarinen, Tero Säntti, Maria Katiuscia Zedda, Victor Sanchez, Shayan Tabatabaei Nikkhah, Dip Goswami, Guillermo Amat, Lukáš Maršík, Mark van Helvoort, Luis Medina, Zaid Al-Ars, Ad de Beer,
Design and management of image processing pipelines within CPS: Acquired experience towards the end of the FitOptiVis ECSEL Project,
Microprocessors and Microsystems,
Volume 87,
2021,
104350,
ISSN 0141-9331,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micpro.2021.104350.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S014193312100507X)
Abstract: Cyber-Physical Systems (CPSs) are dynamic and reactive systems interacting with processes, environment and, sometimes, humans. They are often distributed with sensors and actuators, characterized for being smart, adaptive, predictive and react in real-time. Indeed, image- and video-processing pipelines are a prime source for environmental information for systems allowing them to take better decisions according to what they see. Therefore, in FitOptiVis, we are developing novel methods and tools to integrate complex image- and video-processing pipelines. FitOptiVis aims to deliver a reference architecture for describing and optimizing quality and resource management for imaging and video pipelines in CPSs both at design- and run-time. The architecture is concretized in low-power, high-performance, smart components, and in methods and tools for combined design-time and run-time multi-objective optimization and adaptation within system and environment constraints.
Keywords: Image processing; Video processing; Distributed system; Heterogeneous system; Multi-objective optimization; Cyber-physical systems

Alok Raj, J. Ajith Kumar, Prateek Bansal,
A multicriteria decision making approach to study barriers to the adoption of autonomous vehicles,
Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice,
Volume 133,
2020,
Pages 122-137,
ISSN 0965-8564,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tra.2020.01.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0965856419305798)
Abstract: Automation technology is emerging, but the adoption rate of autonomous vehicles (AV) will depend upon how policymakers and the government address various challenges such as public acceptance and infrastructure development. This study follows a five-stage method to understand these barriers to AV adoption. First, based on a literature review followed by discussions with experts, ten barriers are identified. Second, the opinions of eighteen experts from industry and academia regarding inter-relations between these barriers are recorded. Third, a multicriteria decision making technique, the grey-based Decision-making Trial and Evaluation Laboratory (Grey-DEMATEL), is applied to characterize the structure of relationships between the barriers. Fourth, robustness of the results is tested using sensitivity analysis. Fifth, the key results are depicted in a causal loop diagram (CLD), a systems thinking approach, to comprehend cause-and-effect relationships between the barriers. The results indicate that the lack of customer acceptance (LCA) is the most prominent barrier, the one which should be addressed at the highest priority. The CLD suggests that LCA can be mitigated by addressing two other prominent and more tangible barriers – lack of industry standards and the absence of regulations and certifications. The study’s contribution lies in demonstrating that the barriers to AV adoption do not exist in isolation but are linked with each other in overlapping loops of cause and effect relationships. These insights can help different stakeholders in prioritizing their endeavors to expedite AV adoption. From the methodological perspective, this is the first study in the transportation literature that integrates Grey-DEMATEL with systems thinking.
Keywords: Autonomous vehicle; Barriers; Grey-DEMATEL; Causal loop diagram

Muhammad Shahid Anwar, Ahyoung Choi, Sadique Ahmad, Khursheed Aurangzeb, Asif Ali Laghari, Thippa Reddy Gadekallu, Andrew Hines,
A Moving Metaverse: QoE challenges and standards requirements for immersive media consumption in autonomous vehicles,
Applied Soft Computing,
Volume 159,
2024,
111577,
ISSN 1568-4946,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2024.111577.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S156849462400351X)
Abstract: The evolution of Autonomous Vehicles (AVs) has blurred the distinction between drivers and passengers, resulting in increased demand for in-car entertainment. Simultaneously, social networking platforms are evolving to adopt AR (Augmented Reality)/VR (Virtual Reality)-centric metaverses. Self-driving cars will free up the drivers and passengers to engage in leisure activities such as watching VR videos and playing games while travelling. Before driverless cars can become a “third living space”, open challenges confront the provision of immersive content (e.g., VR videos and gaming) with a high level of Quality of Experience (QoE). Current autonomous vehicular network technologies focus on navigation and safety and rely on ubiquitous high-speed 5G/6G network connectivity to provide a seamless streaming experience in AVs. The compounded risks of cyber- and motion-sickness are identified as barriers to the enjoyment of in-car VR entertainment technologies. The influence of AV car networks in different traffic conditions is identified as a key factor to minimize a person’s risk of sickness and increase overall QoE. However, assessing the QoE of immersive media consumption in AV to its full potential is a difficult task that requires proper standard guidelines and directions. Existing surveys focus only on a specific metaverse or transportation system. These surveys lack a comprehensive view of the entire immersive media consumption process, QoE factors and aspects, and QoE standards for assessing immersive content in vehicular networks. To address these issues, we present an overview of the research landscape in the context of QoE and network standards that highlights the need for experimental studies to inform and consolidate the methodologies and recommendations for standardization of immersive content QoE assessment in AVs. Research and user studies have not yet yielded standards or recommendations describing assessment methodologies to evaluate immersive systems, such as exist for traditional video and images. A framework is outlined to provide a comprehensive understanding of the QoE influencing factors and aspects that will assist in adapting, augmenting, and producing standards for immersive entertainment in autonomous vehicles.
Keywords: Metaverse applications; Autonomous Vehicles (AVs); Immersive content; Metaverse; Quality of Experience (QoE); QoE standardization; VR videos and gaming; Multimedia consumption

Gabriel Costa, João Pinho, Miguel Ayala Botto, Pedro U. Lima,
Online learning of MPC for autonomous racing,
Robotics and Autonomous Systems,
Volume 167,
2023,
104469,
ISSN 0921-8890,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.robot.2023.104469.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921889023001082)
Abstract: A Learning-based Model Predictive Control (LMPC) algorithm is proposed for a Formula Student (FS) autonomous vehicle. The online learning algorithm has two distinct roles: to improve the dynamic model accuracy of the vehicle used in the MPC, while performing online tuning of the model predictive controller parameters. The developed controller is shown to reduce the total lap time through an iterative learning process as the vehicle progresses on track. To capture the full complexity of the nonlinear higher order dynamics, an Artificial Neural Network (ANN) complements the vehicle’s nominal model. The ANN is trained using an online supervised learning scheme based on past model prediction errors. Additionally, a Genetic Algorithm (GA) is used to iteratively find the optimal set of controller parameters that maximizes a reward function. Several simulation tests performed on real examples of competition tracks demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach. Moreover, it is shown that the combination of both online learning methods is able to significantly improve tracking performance of the FS vehicle, eventually reducing the total lap time by over 16%.
Keywords: Learning Model Predictive Control; Model learning; Motion and path planning; Autonomous racing

Olusogo Popoola, Marcos Rodrigues, Jims Marchang, Alex Shenfield, Augustine Ikpehia, Jumoke Popoola,
A critical literature review of security and privacy in smart home healthcare schemes adopting IoT & blockchain: Problems, Challenges and Solutions,
Blockchain: Research and Applications,
2023,
100178,
ISSN 2096-7209,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bcra.2023.100178.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2096720923000532)
Abstract: Protecting private data in smart homes, a popular Internet-of-Things (IoT) application, remains a significant data security and privacy challenge due to the large-scale development and distributed nature of IoT networks. Recently, smart healthcare has leveraged smart home systems, thereby compounding security concerns in terms of the confidentiality of sensitive and private data and by extension the privacy of the data owner. However, PoA-based Blockchain DLT has emerged as a promising solution for protecting private data from indiscriminate use and thereby preserving the privacy of individuals residing in IoT-enabled smart homes. This review elicits some concerns, issues, and problems that have hindered the adoption of blockchain and IoT (BCoT) in some domains and suggests requisite solutions using the aging-in-place scenario. Implementation issues with BCoT were examined as well as the combined challenges BCoT can pose when utilised for security gains. The study discusses recent findings, opportunities, and barriers, and provide recommendations that could facilitate the continuous growth of blockchain application in healthcare. Lastly, the study then explored the potential of using a PoA-based permission blockchain with an applicable consent-based privacy model for decision-making in the information disclosure process, including the use of publisher-subscriber contracts for fine-grained access control to ensure secure data processing and sharing, as well as ethical trust in personal information disclosure, as a solution direction. The proposed authorisation framework could guarantee data ownership, conditional access management, scalable and tamper-proof data storage, and a more resilient system against threat models such as interception and insider attacks.
Keywords: IoT; Smart home healthcare; PoA-based permissioned blockchain; Authorisation framework; Fine-grained access control; Interception; Privacy model; Consent

Prashant Singh, Zeinab Elmi, Vamshi Krishna Meriga, Junayed Pasha, Maxim A. Dulebenets,
Internet of Things for sustainable railway transportation: Past, present, and future,
Cleaner Logistics and Supply Chain,
Volume 4,
2022,
100065,
ISSN 2772-3909,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clscn.2022.100065.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772390922000385)
Abstract: The Internet of Things (IoT) symbolizes numerous devices which are connected globally through the internet technology and are able to collect and share relevant data. The IoT has thus achieved a significant advancement in the field of sensors, networks, and communication technologies, such as long-term evolution (LTE) technology, fifth generation (5G) technology, wireless sensor networks (WSN), and others. Apart from technological advancements, the ability of IoT to run fully embedded (with or without an operating system), gather real-time data, estimate physical parameters, facilitate decision making based on the data gathered, use of various networks (e.g., local area networks (LAN), low-power wide-area network (LPWAN), cellular LPWAN) has provided enormous opportunities for its applications in the railway industry and other domains. The current study performs a comprehensive holistic survey of various IoT technologies that can be used in railway operations, management, maintenance, video surveillance, and safety at level crossings. This study also discusses current trends in the IoT, emerging IoT technologies, green IoT applications, and various research studies that have been conducted in the areas related to railway applications. Furthermore, various challenges that are associated with the IoT applications are discussed along with potential efforts that can be made to overcome these challenges. The outcomes of this work are expected to offer important insights regarding the applicability of IoT technologies for sustainable railway transportation, their future potential, operational benefits to relevant stakeholders and authorities, as well as critical future research needs that have to be addressed in the following years.
Keywords: Internet of Things; Rail transportation; Sustainable transportation; IoT benefits; IoT challenges; Railway applications

Gozde Bakioglu, Ali Osman Atahan,
AHP integrated TOPSIS and VIKOR methods with Pythagorean fuzzy sets to prioritize risks in self-driving vehicles,
Applied Soft Computing,
Volume 99,
2021,
106948,
ISSN 1568-4946,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2020.106948.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494620308863)
Abstract: Self-driving vehicles are of critical importance to a future sustainable transport system, which is expected to become widespread around the world. However a substantial amount of risk is associated with self-driving vehicles which must be considered by decision-makers effectively. Given that automated driving technology and how it will interact with the mobility system are substantially risky, the risks involved in self-driving vehicles need to be addressed appropriately. The identified knowledge gap of the pre-literature review is that an overview of the identification which completely considers all types of risks related to self-driving vehicles does not exist. In response to this knowledge gap, this study aims to prioritize the risks in self-driving vehicles. Risk prioritization is a complicated multi-criteria decision making (MCDM) problem that requires consideration of multiple feasible alternatives and conflicting tangible and intangible criteria. This study addresses the prioritization of risks involved with self-driving vehicles by proposing new hybrid MCDM methods based on the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP), the Technique for order preference by similarity to an ideal solution (TOPSIS) and Vlse Kriterijumska Optimizacija I Kompromisno Resenje (VIKOR) under Pythagorean fuzzy environment. The result of the proposed model is validated by performing sensitivity analysis. The performance of proposed methodology with Pythagorean fuzzy sets is also compared with those with ordinary fuzzy sets and it is revealed that the proposed method produces reliable and informative outcomes better representing the impreciseness of decision making problems. The findings of this study will provide useful insight to the planners and policymakers for decision making in self-driving vehicles.
Keywords: Hybrid multi-criteria decision making; Pythagorean fuzzy sets; Self-driving vehicles; Risk prioritization

Tao Yi, Qingxiu Li, Yanlei Zhu, Zijing Shan, Handong Ye, Chuanbo Xu, Haoxin Dong,
A hierarchical co-optimal planning framework for microgrid considering hydrogen energy storage and demand-side flexibilities,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 84, Part B,
2024,
110940,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.110940.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X24005243)
Abstract: In order to cope with the fluctuations of renewable energy sources (RES) and the impact of random charging loads of electric vehicles (EV), this paper proposes a hierarchical co-optimal planning framework for flexible energy management of microgrid (MG). Various flexible resources including hydrogen energy and vehicle-to-grid (V2G) are refinedly modeled to explore their synergistic effects on the reliability, economy, and greenness of MG. The upper-layer model is V2G optimal scheduling to simultaneously minimize the MG's load variance and the EV owners' charging cost. NSGA-II is adopted to achieve mutual benefits for MG investors and EV consumers. The lower-layer model is MG optimal planning for harmonization of economic cost and RES consumption ability. It's worth noting that a novel relaxation strategy based on ε-constraint method is proposed to equivalently transform the lower-layer nonlinear problem into a mixed-integer linear programming problem. Then, Gurobi solver is applied to solve it efficiently. Case study validates that V2G on average reduces the MG's load variance by 56.22 % and reduces the EV owners' charging cost by 61.74 %. A novel finding is that hydrogen as a zero‑carbon fuel supplied for hydrogen-fueled vehicles provides significant flexibility value comparable to energy storage, as demonstrated by an additional 68.52 % reduction in the renewable energy curtailment ratio (RECR) than hydrogen only used for energy storage, which is usually overlooked in existing research. Moreover, co-optimizing hydrogen energy and V2G can reduce MG's annualized total cost by 0.77 %–1.38 % and reduce RECR by 10.85 %–22.47 % compared to considering only one flexible resource, which is adopted in most studies.
Keywords: Microgrid; Flexible resources; Hydrogen; Vehicle to grid; Hydrogen-fueled vehicle; Multi-objective optimization

Arnold Lim, Enrong Pan,
‘Toward a Global Social Contract for Trade’ - a Rawlsian approach to Blockchain Systems Design and Responsible Trade Facilitation in the New Bretton Woods era,
Journal of Responsible Technology,
Volume 6,
2021,
100011,
ISSN 2666-6596,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jrt.2021.100011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666659621000044)
Abstract: Imminent changes to the international monetary system alongside a shift toward more egalitarian principles of justice in commercial contracts for trade are now taking place. Such changes however do not sufficiently account for circumstances of hardship, or black-swan events such as COVID-19, whereby the relative losers of trading arrangements should continue to receive outcomes which are not only efficient, but also fair and resilient. We argue that the ‘Society-in-the-Loop’ (SITL) social contract paradigm, in conjunction with the use of Strategic Responsible Innovation Management (StRIM), can together provide a solution for improving distributive justice in trade. Through collaboration with a locally based trade facilitation company, we describe the innovation-planning phase of a blockchain smart contract solution based on Derek Leben's idea of a ‘Rawlsian Algorithm’ (2017). It is demonstrated how this can be used to strengthen the algorithmic fairness of commercial contract implementation in accordance with existing ISO 20022 standards. Since currently no formal design framework exists for modeling blockchain oriented software (BOS), an agile development approach is adopted which takes account of the substantial difference between traditional software development and smart contracts. This method involves the construction of UML Use Case, Sequence, and Class diagrams, with a view to blockchain specificities. Evaluation and feedback from the company is also considered.
Keywords: International distributive justice; Trade facilitation; Trade ethics; Global social contract; Blockchain; Smart contract; Incoterms; New Bretton Woods; Responsible innovation; John Rawls; Rawlsian algorithm; Algorithmic justice; Value sensitive design; StRIM; Society-in-the-Loop

N. González, M. Solera, F. Ruiz, C. Gijón, M. Toril,
A quality of experience model for live video in first-person-view drone control in cellular networks,
Computer Networks,
Volume 237,
2023,
110089,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2023.110089.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128623005340)
Abstract: Several upcoming 5G and 6G services will rely on unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) sending live information to remote terminals. Thus, understanding the traffic flows that might influence end-user experience in these services is key for cellular network operators. One of these UAV-based services is first person view (FPV) drone control, consisting on the remote control of the UAV in Beyond Visual Line of Sight scenarios using only the live video visualized in a ground control station. This work focuses on the networking aspects of this service by presenting the assembly, integration and evaluation methodology of an UAV quadrotor teleoperated via FPV through a Long Term Evolution (LTE) network or WiFi radio access link. To assess system performance, three different connectivity schemes between UAV and ground control station are tested, namely server-based connection via LTE, direct LTE, and peer-to-peer WiFi connection. Then, several experiments are carried out in the testbed to characterize telemetry, control and video traffic for FPV service in the above schemes. Later, a methodology is defined to estimate Quality of Experience (QoE) for FPV service based on image quality and video latency measurements collected at network and application level. Results show that the QoE model for live video introduced in this work can be the basis of more sophisticated models for cellular FPV services.
Keywords: Unmanned-aerial-vehicle; First-person-view; Beyond-visual-line-of-sight; Quality-of-experience; Video-quality-assessment

Jinyu Wang, Haifeng Sang, Quankai Liu, Wangxing Chen, Zishan Zhao,
Neural differential constraint-based pedestrian trajectory prediction model in ego-centric perspective,
Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence,
Volume 133, Part A,
2024,
107993,
ISSN 0952-1976,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2024.107993.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197624001519)
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles offer significant advantages for transportation systems, particularly in enhancing traffic safety. To achieve this goal, it is crucial to comprehensively understand and predict the future trajectories of pedestrians in proximity to autonomous vehicles. Many contemporary approaches for predicting pedestrian trajectories heavily rely on neural networks, especially recurrent neural networks. However, these approaches do not explicitly incorporate the dynamics of pedestrian movement and instead rely on data-driven black-box models. Consequently, these models may fall short in terms of interpretability and fail to adhere to the fundamental principles of kinematics. In response to these limitations, our work introduces an innovative model for pedestrian trajectory prediction grounded in neural differential constraints. We aim to investigate temporal changes in pedestrian state variables, such as position and speed, using neural networks. During the prediction process, the output of the neural network is governed by differential equations. This approach ensures that the generated trajectories align with the fundamental principles of physics, harnessing the combined power of neural networks and physics-based pedestrian motion models. Furthermore, our research endeavors to develop a cohesive framework that seamlessly integrates pedestrian movement patterns with the influence of ego-vehicles, while also considering potential destinations to inform future trajectory planning. We conducted extensive experiments on two publicly available real-world datasets to assess the effectiveness of our model in enhancing prediction accuracy and providing coherent explanations of pedestrian motion, comparing it to state-of-the-art methods.
Keywords: Autonomous vehicles; Pedestrian trajectory prediction; Neural differential constraint; Transformer; Pedestrian-vehicle interaction; Latent destination

Di Zhou, Fangjing Zha, Wenyan Qiu, Xiaoru Zhang,
Does digital literacy reduce the risk of returning to poverty? Evidence from China,
Telecommunications Policy,
2024,
102768,
ISSN 0308-5961,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.telpol.2024.102768.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030859612400065X)
Abstract: Digital literacy is a crucial skill for accessing the benefits of the digital economy. Analyzing the impact of digital literacy on the risk of falling back into poverty is of great practical significance for achieving sustainable poverty alleviation. Based on data from the China Family Panel Studies (CFPS) in 2018, this paper examines the impact of digital literacy on the risk of returning to poverty for poverty-alleviated households, and investigates its underlying mechanism. The study finds that digital literacy can reduce the risk of returning to poverty by promoting local non-farm employment and migrant work, improving entrepreneurial performance, and expanding entrepreneurial scale. However, digital literacy plays a relatively minor role in reducing the risk of returning to poverty through entrepreneurship compared to employment. In the heterogeneity analysis, this paper concludes that digital literacy is more advantageous for disadvantaged groups. Furthermore, compared to digital entertainment literacy, digital learning literacy is more effective in reducing the risk of returning to poverty. This study has significant implications for understanding and improving the governance mechanism of sustainable poverty alleviation through digital literacy.
Keywords: Digital literacy; Poverty-alleviated households; Risk of returning to poverty; Digital divide

Adam Kostrzewa, Rolf Ernst,
Achieving safety and performance with reconfiguration protocol for ethernet TSN in automotive systems,
Journal of Systems Architecture,
Volume 118,
2021,
102208,
ISSN 1383-7621,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sysarc.2021.102208.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S138376212100148X)
Abstract: Application of Ethernet-based networks in the autonomous and automated vehicles requires safe and efficient resource management policy. The network components must not only handle high volume of sensor data but also safely accommodate dynamics in system behavior, e.g. detect permanent failures, switch between different driving modes (city/highway), incorporate car-2-x communication etc. This is currently manageable only by using static network configuration, due to the safety concerns, leading to resource overprovisioning under almost all conditions or unfulfilled design requirements. In this work we present an alternative solution which, through protocol-based synchronization and fine-grained re-configuration, allows traffic isolation, fault recovery and controlled adjustments of network performance. This enables cost saving, multi-mode network functionality at low overhead as well as new system functions and improved user experience by dynamic over-the-air network operation. We offer a detailed evaluation of our approach in a demonstrator setup as well as a simulation and comparison with state-of-the-art approaches.
Keywords: Automotive networks safety-critical mode-change

Ming Cai,
Rockburst risk control and mitigation in deep mining,
Deep Resources Engineering,
2024,
100019,
ISSN 2949-9305,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.deepre.2024.100019.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2949930524000190)
Abstract: It is important to understand and manage rockburst challenges in deep mining operations. This paper presents a systematic study of rockburst risk in underground mining, offering a detailed examination of influencing factors, risk assessment, and various control and mitigation methods. The complexities of rockburst phenomena are explained by examining factors that lead to the occurrence of rockbursts. A rockburst risk assessment using a bow-tie analysis is conducted, which provides insights into both risk evaluation and proactive control and mitigation systems. The core of the paper presents a comprehensive array of rockburst risk control and mitigation methods, which range from controls to reduce rockburst hazard, and excavation vulnerability, to controls and mitigations to reduce exposure. Strategic engineering control methods, including mine design and mining sequencing, are discussed. Tactical engineering control measures, such as ground pre-conditioning and rock support, are scrutinized, along with administrative controls like evacuation and re-entry protocols and the use of mechanized equipment. A multiple-line defense system is advocated for rockburst risk management to address the uncertainties involved in the process. Finally, emerging technologies and innovations as well as challenges are discussed, providing a roadmap for continued advancements in rockburst risk management in the future. This work serves as a valuable resource for mining professionals, researchers, and policymakers seeking a comprehensive understanding of rockburst risk management in deep mining.
Keywords: Rockburst risk; Rockburst hazard; Excavation vulnerability; Exposure; Rock support; Risk control; Risk mitigation

Shah Khalid Khan, Nirajan Shiwakoti, Peter Stasinopoulos, Yilun Chen, Matthew Warren,
Exploratory factor analysis for cybersecurity regulation and consumer data in autonomous vehicle acceptance: Insights from four OECD countries,
Transportation Research Interdisciplinary Perspectives,
Volume 25,
2024,
101084,
ISSN 2590-1982,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trip.2024.101084.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590198224000708)
Abstract: No study has systematically investigated the public's perceptions of cybersecurity regulation, data generated by Autonomous Vehicles (AVs), and their relationship with the acceptance of AVs. To fill this knowledge gap, we conducted an exploratory study on public perceptions of cybersecurity regulation and consumer data in AVs acceptance by surveying nationally representative individuals from four OECD countries (US, UK, Australia, and New Zealand). A total of 2062 responses collected from the survey underwent Exploratory Factor Analysis (EFA) to examine constructs such as Cybersecurity Regulation, Data Sharing, Data Usage, Data Concerns, and intention to use AVs. Correlation analysis further explored the relationships between these constructs, while Mann-Whitney U and Kruskal-Wallis H tests assessed the significance of differences across participant groups. The empirical findings indicate that 80% of respondents agreed on the necessity of cybersecurity regulation for AV operations, with 67% perceiving it as a means to enhance AV safety. Surprisingly, 66% supported cybersecurity regulation despite the potential risk of exposing their personal information. Individuals who are more willing to share AV data also expressed a higher likelihood of using AVs. Furthermore, those who agreed more with cybersecurity regulations were more inclined to be compensated for their data transmission while expressing concerns about data storage and processing. Moreover, around 53% of participants feel they should be compensated for sharing their AV data, with 68% expressing concern about AVs' data storage and processing and 71% supporting the destruction of AV data post-sale. Regarding data privacy concerns, “In-vehicle Private Conversation” draws notable attention, rated very important or extremely important by 64% of the participants. The findings highlight the importance of cybersecurity regulation, data sharing, and data concerns in shaping individuals' intentions to use AVs, as well as the influence of socio-technological attributes.

Gokula Manikandan Senthil Kumar, Sunliang Cao,
Simulation-based techno-economic feasibility study on sector coupled net-zero/positive energy metro railway system in Hong Kong,
Energy Conversion and Management,
Volume 248,
2021,
114786,
ISSN 0196-8904,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2021.114786.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0196890421009626)
Abstract: Sector coupling between the building and transportation sector can reduce decarbonization costs by boosting the energy system's overall performance, adequacy, flexibility, reliability and economy while leveraging renewable energy. This project recommends that the net-positive energy metro railway system is a large-scale versatile system capable of integrating all proven technologies to resolve many energy-related issues. Low consumption, high-efficiency metro station building and battery-powered metro trains with B2V, G2V, V2B and swappable battery techniques are designed, modelled, parametrically simulated and analyzed with various control strategies to achieve a net-positive energy balance based on various techno-enviro-economic indicators. Six different metro railway systems have been comprehensively developed and comparatively studied to investigate the renewable energy integration and interaction among metro stations, metro trains and the utility grid while achieving optimum load matching and grid interaction. The economic and energy flexibility studies are carried out to quantitatively highlight the potential. When the net-positive energy principle is implemented in a traditional railway system (ref_case-2), the renewable energy output of 1907 MWh meet demand, resulting in annual net positivity of 15.36% with an OEF of 0.8 and OEM of 0.71, and reducing annual carbon emissions into −8.5 kg/m2.a. The economic indicator shows that ref_case-2 and ref_case-3 are feasible only on Hong Kong FiT and not viable on the net-metering-based tariff. Eliminating the investment in electric catenary for the overhanging power line by following a battery-based metro train with B2V, G2V, V2B, and swappable battery technique significantly improves the overall performance and makes the system techno-enviro-economically feasibility on both the tariffs.
Keywords: Net-zero energy system; Sector coupling; Renewable energy; Battery-powered metro train; Building-vehicle interaction; Swappable vehicle battery

Jacob Larsson, Musa Furkan Keskin, Bile Peng, Balázs Kulcsár, Henk Wymeersch,
Pro-social control of connected automated vehicles in mixed-autonomy multi-lane highway traffic,
Communications in Transportation Research,
Volume 1,
2021,
100019,
ISSN 2772-4247,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.commtr.2021.100019.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772424721000196)
Abstract: We propose pro-social control strategies for connected automated vehicles (CAVs) to mitigate jamming waves in mixed-autonomy multi-lane traffic, resulting from car-following dynamics of human-driven vehicles (HDVs). Different from existing studies, which focus mostly on ego vehicle objectives to control CAVs in an individualistic manner, we devise a pro-social control algorithm. The latter takes into account the objectives (i.e., driving comfort and traffic efficiency) of both the ego vehicle and surrounding HDVs to improve smoothness of the entire observable traffic. Under a model predictive control (MPC) framework that uses acceleration and lane change sequences of CAVs as optimization variables, the problem of individualistic, altruistic, and pro-social control is formulated as a non-convex mixed-integer nonlinear program (MINLP) and relaxed to a convex quadratic program through converting the piece-wise-linear constraints due to the optimal velocity with relative velocity (OVRV) car-following model into linear constraints by introducing slack variables. Low-fidelity simulations using the OVRV model and high-fidelity simulations using PTV VISSIM simulator show that pro-social and altruistic control can provide significant performance gains over individualistic driving in terms of efficiency and comfort on both single- and multi-lane roads.
Keywords: Altruistic control; Pro-social control; Traffic disturbance; Model predictive control; Connected automated vehicles; Stop-and-go waves

Zeeshan Hameed Mir, Nils Dreyer, Thomas Kürner, Fethi Filali,
A top–down approach for building realistic reference scenarios and simulation framework for LTE C-V2X communications,
Ad Hoc Networks,
Volume 138,
2023,
103004,
ISSN 1570-8705,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adhoc.2022.103004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570870522001767)
Abstract: Many vehicle-to-everything (V2X) applications and use cases require their feasibility to be simulated, tested, and validated in realistic traffic scenarios and under various network conditions before real-time testbed implementation. As cellular-V2X (C-V2X) becomes a superior technology for future connected and autonomous vehicles, the need for a simulation framework, which integrates traffic and network simulators with a realistic channel model, becomes more evident. The challenge is to overcome existing simulation platforms’ weaknesses and improve simulation results’ accuracy while preserving flexibility with manageable implementation complexity. This paper proposed a top–down approach for building reference scenarios with macroscopic and microscopic layers, which interweaves traffic, network, and channel simulators. The basis for the proposed simulation framework is realistic scenario data, which provides the input to the road traffic simulator and the radio channel simulator. The core of the whole simulator is the network simulator interacting with the two other simulators via dedicated interfaces. The road traffic simulator generates the vehicles’ positions and is forwarded to the network simulator, which requests the radio channel simulator for the path loss values on the transmitter–receiver (TX-RX) link. As a proof of concept, the simulation results focused on the load and interference analysis in the absence and presence of V2X traffic.
Keywords: LTE; V2X; System-level simulations; LTE-V2x; C-V2X; Realistic reference scenarios

Ali Ebadi Torkayesh, Sepehr Hendiani, Grit Walther, Sandra Venghaus,
Fueling the future: Overcoming the barriers to market development of renewable fuels in Germany using a novel analytical approach,
European Journal of Operational Research,
Volume 316, Issue 3,
2024,
Pages 1012-1033,
ISSN 0377-2217,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2024.02.039.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0377221724001711)
Abstract: Germany has set ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, namely by 65% until 2030 (compared to the 1990 level) and achieving climate neutrality by 2045. Although GHG emissions have decreased in most sectors, the transport sector has experienced failed reduction attempts. Renewable fuels are promising sustainable fuel alternatives that can replace current market-dominant fossil fuels to reduce GHG emissions. However, the market development of renewable fuels is hindered by various economic, environmental, technical, regulatory, and social barriers. Using a novel holistic approach, this study aims to analyze the market development barriers for renewable fuels in the German transport sector. First, a novel extension to the decision making trial and evaluation laboratory (DEMATEL) method is proposed using the Type-2 Neutrosophic Numbers (T2NN), which is improved by the K-means algorithm. Second, the maximum mean de-entropy algorithm is applied to convert the results of T2NN-DEMATEL into input for interpretive structural modeling (ISM). Next, a case study is conducted to analyze the impacts of barriers on different transport modes using the T2NN-based additive ratio assessment. Extensive sensitivity analyses are conducted to measure the impacts of different factors under different circumstances. The obtained results indicate that insufficient renewable energy policies and regulations, the lack of coordination in the supply chain, and high technology conversion challenges are the most significant barriers. Moreover, road and maritime transport are affected more than the aviation and rail sectors by the market development barriers.
Keywords: Multiple criteria analysis; Renewable fuels; Transport; Interpretive structural modeling; DEMATEL

Melike Erdoğan, İhsan Kaya, Ali Karaşan, Murat Çolak,
Evaluation of autonomous vehicle driving systems for risk assessment based on three-dimensional uncertain linguistic variables,
Applied Soft Computing,
Volume 113, Part A,
2021,
107934,
ISSN 1568-4946,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2021.107934.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494621008565)
Abstract: Autonomous vehicle driving systems (AVDSs) have independent decision structures from the users to manage and control the operations of the vehicles both in normal conditions and unexpected situations. Although there are some advantages, such as decreasing accidents reasoned by human errors and efficient energy usage, it is obvious that some risks are rooted in this technology usage. Therefore, it will be beneficial to realize a risk assessment application for autonomous vehicles (AVs) and/or driving systems (DSs) since whose risks are crucial to test and solve. In this paper, a multi-criteria decision making (MCDM) methodology integrating DEcision MAking Trial and Evaluation Laboratory (DEMATEL), Analytical Network Process (ANP), and VlseKriterijuska Optimizacija I Komoromisno Resenje (VIKOR) techniques under spherical fuzzy environment have been suggested to evaluate AVDS alternatives in terms of considered risk criteria. Spherical fuzzy sets (SFS), which are the extension of the ordinary fuzzy sets, have been used to consider the hesitancy of experts and decision-makers as well as uncertainty and impreciseness in the available data. In the application, six AVDS alternatives have been evaluated in terms of seven main criteria and forty sub-criteria. The factors “Software Specifications” and “Reliability” have been determined as the most important main and sub-criteria with the weights 0.193 and 0.066, respectively. Additionally, comparative and sensitivity analyses have been applied to present flexibility, validation and verification of the proposed methodology together with the sensitivity of the given decisions. Based on the application results and conducted analyses, possible implications by views of theoretical, managerial, and policy context have been discussed.
Keywords: Autonomous vehicle; Risk assessment; Fuzzy set theory; Spherical fuzzy sets; MCDM; DEMATEL; ANP; VIKOR

Ping He, Nina Almasifar, Abolfazl Mehbodniya, Danial Javaheri, Julian L. Webber,
Towards green smart cities using Internet of Things and optimization algorithms: A systematic and bibliometric review,
Sustainable Computing: Informatics and Systems,
Volume 36,
2022,
100822,
ISSN 2210-5379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.suscom.2022.100822.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2210537922001536)
Abstract: Energy efficiency is an important concern that the scientific community and society will have to deal with in the coming years. Power-efficient structures and effective energy resource management in critical locations, such as tourist spots, have become a crucial problem that must be considered by environmental scientists and governments worldwide. The primary objective is to decrease the ecological effect of energy usage. Also, smart city activities are currently being aided by many innovative technologies such as the Internet of things and cloud computing. Because of the lack of comprehensive study in this field, this study aims to present a systematic and bibliographic overview of the literature on improving the energy efficiency of smart city equipment. This page presents the geographical locations where most publications in this discipline have been released. It provides a wide-ranging, accurate, and novel review of literature on optimizing the energy performance of smart city components. Utilizing computational optimization algorithms in this domain also opens up new perspectives in terms of energy efficiency. The results showed that these algorithms have successfully optimized energy consumption and reduced pollution and emissions of greenhouse gases.
Keywords: Algorithm; Energy Management; Optimization; Green City; Internet of Things; Energy; Power; Resource Management; Tourism

Michael McQueen, Kelly J. Clifton,
Assessing the perception of E-scooters as a practical and equitable first-mile/last-mile solution,
Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice,
Volume 165,
2022,
Pages 395-418,
ISSN 0965-8564,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tra.2022.09.021.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0965856422002579)
Abstract: E-scooters have disrupted and altered the urban mobility landscape. During their introductory period, they have been commonly touted as part of a larger micromobility solution that erases equity barriers and solves the first-mile/last-mile problem. However, few studies in the nascent e-scooter literature have considered these claims. In this study, we used a d-efficient method to design and administer a stated choice experiment (SCE) to students at Portland State University (PSU) (n = 1,968). In the SCE, students were given a three-mode labelled choice set consisting of three travel modes: car, bike, and e-scooter + MAX light rail. (The e-scooter + MAX light rail choice is multimodal, with the e-scooter acting as the first-mile access mode). We generated attitudinal indices using exploratory factor analysis (EFA) in order to control for mode perception. To demonstrate the relationship of travel time and cost in addition to other covariates on mode choice, we estimated a mixed multinomial logit (MMNL) model. We performed elasticity and sensitivity analyses to uncover factors that encouraged first-mile/last-mile e-scooter usage. We then used the model to generate catchment area maps for multimodal trips in the Portland area. Results indicated that e-scooters were lackluster in bringing racial and gender equity in transportation. Additionally, we found that there was no place in Portland where combining an e-scooter and light rail to travel to PSU was most utilitarian compared to bike or private car. This suggests that e-scooters are not perceived as a preferred solution to the first-mile/last-mile problem. Yet, our findings revealed “dials” that can be tweaked through policy measures in order to promote this kind of use, including parking pricing, travel times, fares, and traveler attitudes towards modes. Overall, our analysis of the implementation of e-scooters suggests that their promise is overstated, at least without substantial policy changes to encourage desired use cases.
Keywords: E-scooter; Multimodal; Micromobility; Equity; Mode Choice; Travel Behavior

Imran Zafar, Shakila Anwar, Faheem kanwal, Waqas Yousaf, Fakhar Un Nisa, Tanzeela Kausar, Qurat ul Ain, Ahsanullah Unar, Mohammad Amjad Kamal, Summya Rashid, Khalid Ali Khan, Rohit Sharma,
Reviewing methods of deep learning for intelligent healthcare systems in genomics and biomedicine,
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,
Volume 86, Part B,
2023,
105263,
ISSN 1746-8094,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2023.105263.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1746809423006961)
Abstract: The advancements in genomics and biomedical technologies have generated vast amounts of biological and physiological data, which present opportunities for understanding human health. Deep learning (DL) and machine learning (ML) are frontiers and interdisciplinary fields of computer science that consider comprehensive computational models and provide integral roles for disease diagnosis and therapy investigation. DL-based algorithms can discover the intrinsic hierarchies in the training data to show great promise for extracting features and learning patterns from complex datasets and performing various analytical tasks. This review comprehensively discusses the wide-ranging DL approaches for intelligent healthcare systems (IHS) in genomics and biomedicine. This paper explores advanced concepts in deep learning (DL) and discusses the workflow of utilizing role-based algorithms in genomics and biomedicine to integrate intelligent healthcare systems (IHS). The aim is to overcome biomedical obstacles like patient disease classification, core biomedical processes, and empowering patient-disease integration. The paper also highlights how DL approaches are well-suited for addressing critical challenges in these domains, offering promising solutions for improved healthcare outcomes. We also provided a concise concept of DL architectures and model optimization in genomics and bioinformatics at the molecular level to deal with biomedicine classification, genomic sequence analysis, protein structure classification, and prediction. Finally, we discussed DL's current challenges and future perspectives in genomics and biomedicine for future directions.
Keywords: Deep learning; Intelligent healthcare system; Genomics; Bioinformatics; Computational biology; Biobanks; Biomedicine

Mirco Moencks, Elisa Roth, Thomas Bohné, Per Ola Kristensson,
Augmented Workforce: contextual, cross-hierarchical enquiries on human-technology integration in industry,
Computers & Industrial Engineering,
Volume 165,
2022,
107822,
ISSN 0360-8352,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2021.107822.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360835221007269)
Abstract: Although shop floors become more automated, manual labor is more than the sum of recurring tasks which can simply be executed by autonomous machines. Where total automation is ineffective, operator assistance systems (OAS) could increase productivity and empower the workforce. Operator Assistance Systems (OAS) are systems that interact with operators to modify their cognitive or physical capabilities whilst performing industrial tasks. Given the important role of humans in future manufacturing environments that cannot be automated, production organizations in industry and Human-Technology Integration (HTI) researchers need to understand where OAS can be deployed and what human factors and other human implications arise from their deployment. In short, capturing views from stakeholders who are both affected by and affect the successful implementation of new technologies are essential to align technological innovations with a human-centric perspective. However, based on our literature review of OAS, we find that there are few technology-neutral enquiries on the industrial applicability of OAS. In particular, we note a lack of considerations of the different requirements for OAS resulting from diverse stakeholders in industry, which is expected to be of importance when designing effective HTI. To address this gap, we explore the industrial context of OAS and the perspectives of stakeholder groups across organizations on the applicability of OAS using a multi-method research approach encompassing 27 qualitative expert interviews and ethnographic observations of three industrial contexts. A key finding of our contextual enquiry is that participants expect OAS to be beneficial on shop floors if designed to improve cognitive abilities, such as inductive reasoning. Further, in the case a company seeks to introduce an OAS to augment physical capabilities of operators whilst attached to their bodies, the data indicate a cautious approach is sensible as many operators reject such a form of augmentation. We highlight what our findings mean for HTI research, especially as it relates to consideration of the highly contextual user requirements when developing and integrating human-technology systems for industry.
Keywords: Industry 4.0; Human-centered; Future of work; Operator assistance system; Worker support; Cyber-physical production system; Augmented Industries

Mohammad Ashjaei, Lucia Lo Bello, Masoud Daneshtalab, Gaetano Patti, Sergio Saponara, Saad Mubeen,
Time-Sensitive Networking in automotive embedded systems: State of the art and research opportunities,
Journal of Systems Architecture,
Volume 117,
2021,
102137,
ISSN 1383-7621,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sysarc.2021.102137.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1383762121001028)
Abstract: The functionality advancements and novel customer features that are currently found in modern automotive systems require high-bandwidth and low-latency in-vehicle communications, which become even more compelling for autonomous vehicles. In a recent effort to meet these requirements, the IEEE Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN) task group has developed a set of standards that introduce novel features in Switched Ethernet. TSN standards offer, for example, a common notion of time through accurate and reliable clock synchronization, delay bounds for real-time traffic, time-driven transmissions, improved reliability, and much more. In order to fully utilize the potential of these novel protocols in the automotive domain, TSN should be seamlessly integrated into the state-of-the-art and state-of-practice model-based development processes for automotive embedded systems. Some of the core phases in these processes include software architecture modeling, timing predictability verification, simulation, and hardware realization and deployment. Moreover, throughout the development of automotive embedded systems, the safety and security requirements specified on these systems need to be duly taken into account. In this context, this work provides an overview of TSN in automotive applications and discusses the recent technological developments relevant to the adoption of TSN in automotive embedded systems. The work also points at the open challenges and future research directions.
Keywords: Time-Sensitive Networking; TSN; Automotive embedded systems

Maryam Raiyat Aliabadi, Margo Seltzer, Mojtaba Vahidi Asl, Ramak Ghavamizadeh,
ARTINALI#: An Efficient Intrusion Detection Technique for Resource-Constrained Cyber-Physical Systems,
International Journal of Critical Infrastructure Protection,
Volume 33,
2021,
100430,
ISSN 1874-5482,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijcip.2021.100430.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1874548221000226)
Abstract: Cyber-Physical Systems (CPSes) are integrated into security-critical infrastructures such as medical devices, autonomous vehicles and smart grids. Unfortunately, the pervasiveness and network accessibility of these systems and their relative lack of security measures make them attractive targets for attacks. This makes building Intrusion Detection System (IDS) for CPSes a necessity. However, detecting intrusions requires collecting information about a system’s internal workings; this can be expensive both in runtime and memory consumption. According to prior research, fine-grain monitoring of a CPS maximizes the chance of intrusion detection but incurs overhead that can exceed the resource constraints of these systems. The objective of this study is to propose a solution for adapting IDSes for deployment on resource-limited CPSes without losing detection accuracy. We propose ARTINALI#; a Bayesian-based search and score technique that identifies the critical points at which to instrument a CPS. Given a set of security monitors that observe run-time behavior of the system, a set of specifications that verify the correct behavior of the system, and statistics gathered from fault injection, ARTINALI# discovers a small set of locations and a rich set of specifications that yield full attack coverage with low (memory and time) overhead. We deploy ARTINALI# to construct an IDS for two CPSes: a smart meter and a smart artificial pancreas. We demonstrate that our technique reduces the number of security monitors by 64% on average, leading to 52% and 69% reductions in memory and runtime overhead respectively, while still detecting over 98% of emulated attacks, on average. ARTINALI# enables the IDSes to be applicable to a wide range of CPS systems with different resource capacities. In addition, it accelerates the attack detection process which is significantly essential for safety-critical systems.
Keywords: Intrusion detection system; Cyber-physical system; Security; Accuracy; Efficiency; Feature selection

Iliya Markov, Rafael Guglielmetti, Marco Laumanns, Anna Fernández-Antolín, Ravin de Souza,
Simulation-based design and analysis of on-demand mobility services,
Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice,
Volume 149,
2021,
Pages 170-205,
ISSN 0965-8564,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tra.2021.01.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0965856421000045)
Abstract: On-demand mobility services – autonomous as well as human-driven – promise to transform transportation and urban living. Yet, designing such services involves an array of challenges: from demand data acquisition and processing, to building a versatile simulation framework, to finally evaluating a variety of service configurations and making recommendations. This article illustrates the process of designing and analyzing various types of on-demand mobility services using the City of Chicago, Illinois, as a test case. We start by surveying and categorizing a large number of articles on simulation-based design of on-demand mobility services. This is followed by an extensive experimental study, which analyzes how different service designs perform under real transportation demand patterns in terms of key performance indicators such as demand acceptance rate, excess ride time, deviation from the desired pickup time, vehicle occupancy, and various fleet efficiency metrics. This type of analysis helps mobility service providers and public transit authorities gain insights into the interplay of the different passenger- and fleet-related key performance indicators. Finally, we introduce the fundamental ridesharing diagram, which quantifies the relationship between passenger convenience and fleet efficiency, and helps identify socially optimal service designs.
Keywords: Simulation-based service design; On-demand mobility; Ridesharing; Matching; Key performance indicators (KPIs); Fundamental ridesharing diagram

Akshay Vij, Stacey Ryan, Spring Sampson, Susan Harris,
Consumer preferences for on-demand transport in Australia,
Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice,
Volume 132,
2020,
Pages 823-839,
ISSN 0965-8564,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tra.2019.12.026.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0965856418313636)
Abstract: On-demand transport (ODT) refers to adaptive transport services that use a fleet of vehicles to provide shared flexible transport to consumers, when and where they need it. This study surveyed 3,985 geographically and demographically representative Australians nationwide, to understand consumer demand and willingness to pay for ODT in Australia. Our analysis finds that the current market for ODT services in Australia is small. For example, for an ODT service that costs roughly the same as UberX’s ridesharing service, and offers comparable level-of-service, our analysis predicts that only 17 per cent of the Australian population can be expected to use the service a few times a week or more. However, shared electric autonomous vehicles could significantly change the business case for ODT services, by enabling on-demand door-to-door transport services at a fractional cost of similar existing services. Our analysis finds that while consumers are willing to pay, on average, 0.28$/km more to avoid sharing a vehicle with other passengers, 0.17$/km more for door-to-door service, and 0.10$/km to be able to book the service in real time, cost is the most important determinant of ODT use (of the service attributes included in our analysis). For an ODT service that provides the same level-of-service as UberX, but at a fractional cost of $0.30 per km, 31 per cent of the Australian population can be expected to use the service a few times a week or more. And this figure is likely to be larger once we account for more long-term changes in lifestyles that might accompany the introduction of these services. We find that frequency of ODT use is strongly correlated with age and lifecycle stage: young individuals who are employed full-time are likely to use ODT most frequently; older adults who have retired from the workforce and whose children have left home are likely to be infrequent users. Overall, our analysis indicates that ODT services have the ability to both increase public transport use among existing public transport customers, and to draw new customers to public transport services.

Ali Najmi, Travis Waller, Mehrdad Memarpour, Divya Nair, Taha H. Rashidi,
A human behaviour model and its implications in the transport context,
Transportation Research Interdisciplinary Perspectives,
Volume 18,
2023,
100800,
ISSN 2590-1982,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trip.2023.100800.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590198223000477)
Abstract: This paper delves into the importance of understanding the psychological and cognitive factors that play a vital role in individuals' decision-making and behaviour when it comes to transport. It recognises that while quantitative-based utilities such as cost and performance are important considerations, they are not the only determinants of behaviour. The paper aims to develop a conceptual perspective of psychological and moral values, societal experiences, and service perception and discuss their implications for individuals’ behaviour in transport contexts. To achieve this, the paper draws on theories and concepts from psychology literature, specifically subjective norms and affective attributes. These are used to explore the contextual dimensions of travellers' behaviour and identify the key factors that influence their behaviour and decisions. Thus, two main contributions of the paper are 1) developing a conceptual model that can be used to analyse the decisions of transport users and predict their behaviour 2) reviewing the implications of these factors in the transport context. In particular, the importance of socio-ethical factors in individuals' behaviour toward using transport services and their possible implications in long-term transport planning is discussed.
Keywords: Ethics; Psychological factors; Equity; Behaviour

Vinícius G. Costa, Jorge Pérez-Aracil, Sancho Salcedo-Sanz, Carlos E. Pedreira,
Evolving interpretable decision trees for reinforcement learning,
Artificial Intelligence,
Volume 327,
2024,
104057,
ISSN 0004-3702,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.artint.2023.104057.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0004370223002035)
Abstract: In recent years, reinforcement learning (RL) techniques have achieved great success in many different applications. However, their heavy reliance on complex deep neural networks makes most RL models uninterpretable, limiting their application in domains where trust and security are important. To address this challenge, we propose MENS-DT-RL, an algorithm capable of constructing interpretable models for RL via the evolution of decision tree (DT) models. MENS-DT-RL uses a multi-method ensemble algorithm to evolve univariate DTs, guiding the process with a fitness metric that prioritizes interpretability and consistent high performance. Three different initializations for the MENS-DT-RL are proposed, including the use of Imitation Learning (IL) techniques, and a novel pruning approach that reduces solution size without compromising performance. To evaluate the proposed approach, we compare it with other models from the literature on three benchmark tasks from the OpenAI Gym library, as well as on a fertilization problem inspired by real-world crop management. To the best of our knowledge, the proposed scheme is the first to solve the Lunar Lander benchmark with both interpretability and a high confidence rate (90% of episodes are successful), as well as the first to solve the Mountain Car environment with a tree of only 7 nodes. On the real-world task, the proposed MENS-DT-RL is able to produce solutions with the same quality as deep RL policies, with the added bonus of interpretability. We also analyze the best solutions found by the algorithm and show that they are not only interpretable but also diverse in their behavior, empowering the end user with the choice of which model to apply. Overall, the findings show that the proposed approach is capable of producing high-quality transparent models for RL, achieving interpretability without losing performance.
Keywords: Interpretability; Reinforcement learning; Decision trees; Evolutionary-based algorithms; Multi-method ensembles

Murat Kirişci,
Interval-valued fermatean fuzzy based risk assessment for self-driving vehicles,
Applied Soft Computing,
Volume 152,
2024,
111265,
ISSN 1568-4946,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2024.111265.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494624000395)
Abstract: The decision-making(DM) processes used by autonomous vehicle driving systems are separate from those of the users, allowing them to oversee and regulate the operations of the cars in expected and unforeseen circumstances. Although there are several advantages to using this technology, such as fewer accidents caused by human error and more efficient energy utilization, it is also evident that there are some risks involved. Hence, developing a risk assessment application for these systems will be advantageous given the hazards associated with autonomous cars and driving systems that must be tested and addressed. In this study, a new integrated FF-based MCDM methodology combining the Analytic Hierarchy Process(AHP), Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution(TOPSIS), and Multi-Attributive Border Approximation Area Comparison (MABAC) methods is proposed as a new security model that will help decision-makers address the physical design and attack risks of autonomous vehicles, estimate their uncertainty, and control cyber risks Interval-valued Fuzzy Fermatean sets ten possibilities for autonomous vehicle driving systems assessed in the application based on six main criteria and fifteen sub-criteria. Comparative and sensitivity studies have also been used to demonstrate the adaptability, validity, and verification of the suggested approach and the sensitivity of the decisions made. Possible implications from a theoretical, managerial, and policy framework have been examined based on the application findings and studies that have been done.
Keywords: Self-driving vehicles; Risk assessment; Fermatean fuzzy environment; AHP; TOPSIS; MABAC; Multi-Criteria Decision-Making(MCDM)

Mohammed Alsolami, Ahmad Alferidi, Badr Lami, Sami Ben Slama,
Peer-to-peer trading in smart grid with demand response and grid outage using deep reinforcement learning,
Ain Shams Engineering Journal,
Volume 14, Issue 12,
2023,
102466,
ISSN 2090-4479,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asej.2023.102466.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2090447923003556)
Abstract: With the price of green energy now more reasonable, users can now produce enough electricity to meet their needs and make a profit by selling the surplus on the underground P2P energy market. For households, energy trading and demand management can reduce electricity costs. However, consumers generally obtain market offers based on their expectations and the forecasts of other households. However, the P2P exchange system is not able to quantify the gap between these offers and the best market. The objective of this paper is to apply deep reinforcement learning techniques to optimal energy trading and demand response (DR) methods within a peer-to-peer (P2P) market. The main objective is to maximize cost reductions. The best approach to achieve this objective was investigated as part of this project. The complexity of domestic energy trading and energy recovery is formally characterized as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP). Through decentralized training and performance-based learning, the strategy maximizes policy and value functions. In order to identify the most effective proactive solutions, a comparative analysis is carried out between the two parties. Based on the simulation results, it was observed that implementing the recommended reinforcement learning strategy to optimize peer-to-peer (P2P) energy exchange can lead to a significant improvement in the average household reward. Specifically, the average household reward can be increased by 7.6% and 12.08% by employing the aforementioned approach.
Keywords: Artificial intelligence; Deep reinforcement learning; Peer-to-peer energy trading; Smart community; Photovoltaic-array; Home energy management

Lucas Agostinho, Diogo Pereira, Antoine Hiolle, Andry Pinto,
TEFu-Net: A time-aware late fusion architecture for robust multi-modal ego-motion estimation,
Robotics and Autonomous Systems,
Volume 177,
2024,
104700,
ISSN 0921-8890,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.robot.2024.104700.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921889024000836)
Abstract: Ego-motion estimation plays a critical role in autonomous driving systems by providing accurate and timely information about the vehicle’s position and orientation. To achieve high levels of accuracy and robustness, it is essential to leverage a range of sensor modalities to account for highly dynamic and diverse scenes, and consequent sensor limitations. In this work, we introduce TEFu-Net, a Deep-Learning-based late fusion architecture that combines multiple ego-motion estimates from diverse data modalities, including stereo RGB, LiDAR point clouds and GNSS/IMU measurements. Our approach is non-parametric and scalable, making it adaptable to different sensor set configurations. By leveraging a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM), TEFu-Net produces reliable and robust spatiotemporal ego-motion estimates. This capability allows it to filter out erroneous input measurements, ensuring the accuracy of the car’s motion calculations over time. Extensive experiments show an average accuracy increase of 63% over TEFu-Net’s input estimators and on par results with the state-of-the-art in real-world driving scenarios. We also demonstrate that our solution can achieve accurate estimates under sensor or input failure. Therefore, TEFu-Net enhances the accuracy and robustness of ego-motion estimation in real-world driving scenarios, particularly in challenging conditions such as cluttered environments, tunnels, dense vegetation, and unstructured scenes. As a result of these enhancements, it bolsters the reliability of autonomous driving functions.
Keywords: Ego-motion estimation; Autonomous driving; Multi-modal odometry; Deep learning

Caixing Shao, Fengxin Cheng, Jingzhong Xiao, Ke Zhang,
Vehicular intelligent collaborative intersection driving decision algorithm in Internet of Vehicles,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 145,
2023,
Pages 384-395,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2023.03.038.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X23001231)
Abstract: Connected and Automated Vehicles (CAV) are regarded as the developing trend of future transportation due to the advantages in terms of increasing traffic throughput, safety, and reducing energy consumption. One of the challenging CAV research problems is intelligent collaborative driving decision in dynamically changing traffic scenarios. The sixth-generation mobile communication technology (6G) plays an important role in attaining CAV intelligent driving in Internet of Vehicles (IoV) by provide significantly higher system performance, higher spectral efficiency, higher reliability, and higher security. This paper formulates the collaborative decision problem of CAVs at unsignalized intersections as a multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) problem, where CAVs entering an intersection safely cross the intersection and minimize their traffic time through collaborating to learn a strategy. An efficient and scalable MARL algorithm based on Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) is applied to the dynamic intersection scenarios, where the parameter-sharing mechanism is used to improve the PPO algorithm to be a multi-agent version. Instead of the global reward, the local reward is used to promote cooperation between agents and achieve scalability. In addition, the action masking mechanism is adopted to improve the learning efficiency by filtering out invalid actions at each step. A joint simulation platform is built to verify the performance of the Parameter-Sharing PPO algorithm (PS-PPO). The simulation results show that the PS-PPO algorithm not only guarantees a low collision rate but also greatly reduces the vehicular travel time. This algorithm promotes cooperation among CAVs and performs well in the task of collaborative traffic flow at unsignalized intersections, especially in high-traffic volume scenarios. It is helpful to improve the safety and efficiency of traffic flow at unsignalized intersections.
Keywords: Connected and Automated Vehicle; Multi-agent reinforcement learning; Intelligent collaborative driving; Intersection cross decision algorithm

Leandro do C. Martins, Rocio de la Torre, Canan G. Corlu, Angel A. Juan, Mohamed A. Masmoudi,
Optimizing ride-sharing operations in smart sustainable cities: Challenges and the need for agile algorithms,
Computers & Industrial Engineering,
Volume 153,
2021,
107080,
ISSN 0360-8352,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2020.107080.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360835220307506)
Abstract: Mobility solutions like ride-sharing and carpooling are becoming popular in many urban and metropolitan areas around the globe. These solutions, however, create many operational challenges that need to be solved in order to make them more efficient and sustainable in time, e.g.: determining the number and location of parking slots, finding the optimal routes in terms of time or emissions, or developing synchronized schedules among ride-sharing users. This paper provides an updated review on car-sharing optimization studies (including ride-sharing and carpooling), compares different analytical approaches in this research area, and discusses the emerging concept of ‘agile’ algorithms as one of the approaches that might contribute to deal with the requirements of large-scale and dynamic car-sharing optimization problems.
Keywords: Ride-sharing optimization; Carpooling; Simulation; Metaheuristics; Real-time optimization; Smart sustainable cities

Li Liu, Zhe Wang, Zaisheng Zhang,
Matching-game approach for green technology investment strategies in a supply chain under environmental regulations,
Sustainable Production and Consumption,
Volume 28,
2021,
Pages 371-390,
ISSN 2352-5509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2021.06.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352550921001676)
Abstract: Facing increasingly severe environmental problems, green technology (GT) innovation has become an effective way to achieve the sustainable development of firms. Many manufacturers often choose and invest in appropriate GTs from GT-suppliers to improve the environmental impact of production. But others abandon GTs because they are too expensive to invest in. This paper thereby studies the dynamic investment strategy of GT in a manufacturer-supplier supply chain and explores the optimal government subsidy incentive and its impact on investment and sustainable production decisions. Firstly, an original two-sided matching game model (including two-sided matching analysis and Nash equilibrium analysis) is presented to study the matching process between a manufacturer with a limited investment budget and a GT-supplier with GTs and to determine the optimal GT investment-production strategy. Then, a government-manufacturer Stackelberg game model integrating differential game is constructed to determine the optimal government subsidy strategy and to investigate the effect of government subsidy on investment-production decisions. The results show that stable matching between the manufacturer and GT-supplier can be obtained. Numerical simulations verify the feasibility and rationality of the proposed matching game mechanism and demonstrate that GT investment profit is higher than non-investment profit, and subsidy profit is better than non-subsidy profit. The increase in the carbon price leads to an increase in the GT investment intensity. The increase in the carbon price can cause an increase in product greenness and green demand. The contributions of this paper are in providing an infrastructure for studying how managers can obtain the optimal GT investment-production strategy in the supply chain, and how the government formulates the optimal subsidy strategy to stimulate managers’ GT innovation behavior.
Keywords: Two-sided matching; Game theory; Green technology investment; Government regulation; Sustainable supply chain

Christian Dremel, Matthias M. Herterich, Jochen Wulf, Jan vom Brocke,
Actualizing big data analytics affordances: A revelatory case study,
Information & Management,
Volume 57, Issue 1,
2020,
103121,
ISSN 0378-7206,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2018.10.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378720617308522)
Abstract: Drawing on a revelatory case study, we identify four big data analytics (BDA) actualization mechanisms: (1) enhancing, (2) constructing, (3) coordinating, and (4) integrating, which manifest in actions on three socio-technical system levels, i.e., the structure, actor, and technology levels. We investigate the actualization of four BDA affordances at an automotive manufacturing company, i.e., establishing customer-centric marketing, provisioning vehicle-data-driven services, data-driven vehicle developing, and optimizing production processes. This study introduces a theoretical perspective to BDA research that explains how organizational actions contribute to actualizing BDA affordances. We further provide practical implications that can help guide practitioners in BDA adoption.
Keywords: Big data analytics; Affordance theory; Socio-technical approach; Organizational transformation; Organizational benefits; Affordance actualization

Laura Gebhardt,
Understanding different car users as starting point for future mobility concepts – A co-creation approach,
Transportation Research Interdisciplinary Perspectives,
Volume 12,
2021,
100485,
ISSN 2590-1982,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trip.2021.100485.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590198221001901)
Abstract: The car is still the most used mean of transport in many countries around the world. To reach sustainability, though, reducing motorized transport is a necessity. It is therefore important to understand and address the perspective of car users when developing alternative mobility concepts. Debates around new mobility concepts are often led from a quite technical perspective. When dealing with transformation processes in mobility, however, we are not only confronted with technical challenges, but also with questions regarding the people who are concerned. Therefore, this article aims to contribute to the current discussion by examining mobility logics and requirements that underlie users’ travel behavior. The empirical study examines everyday life mobility using a qualitative, participatory approach. This transdisciplinary approach brings together scientific and non-scientific bodies of knowledge and is situated at the interface of technology development and sociological mobility research. The results indicate that visions of future concepts are strongly shaped by experiences and expectations related to users’ lives. This knowledge forms a valuable basis for developing target-group-specific policies and measures in urban and transport planning.
Keywords: Car usage; Urban mobility; Mobility types; User requirements; Qualitative research; Co-creation; Transdisciplinarity

Görkem Giray,
A software engineering perspective on engineering machine learning systems: State of the art and challenges,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 180,
2021,
111031,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2021.111031.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016412122100128X)
Abstract: Context:
Advancements in machine learning (ML) lead to a shift from the traditional view of software development, where algorithms are hard-coded by humans, to ML systems materialized through learning from data. Therefore, we need to revisit our ways of developing software systems and consider the particularities required by these new types of systems.
Objective:
The purpose of this study is to systematically identify, analyze, summarize, and synthesize the current state of software engineering (SE) research for engineering ML systems.
Method:
I performed a systematic literature review (SLR). I systematically selected a pool of 141 studies from SE venues and then conducted a quantitative and qualitative analysis using the data extracted from these studies.
Results:
The non-deterministic nature of ML systems complicates all SE aspects of engineering ML systems. Despite increasing interest from 2018 onwards, the results reveal that none of the SE aspects have a mature set of tools and techniques. Testing is by far the most popular area among researchers. Even for testing ML systems, engineers have only some tool prototypes and solution proposals with weak experimental proof. Many of the challenges of ML systems engineering were identified through surveys and interviews. Researchers should conduct experiments and case studies, ideally in industrial environments, to further understand these challenges and propose solutions.
Conclusion:
The results may benefit (1) practitioners in foreseeing the challenges of ML systems engineering; (2) researchers and academicians in identifying potential research questions; and (3) educators in designing or updating SE courses to cover ML systems engineering.
Keywords: Software engineering; Software development; Software process; Machine learning; Deep learning; Systematic literature review

Md. Tanzib Hosain, Jamin Rahman Jim, M.F. Mridha, Md Mohsin Kabir,
Explainable AI approaches in deep learning: Advancements, applications and challenges,
Computers and Electrical Engineering,
Volume 117,
2024,
109246,
ISSN 0045-7906,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2024.109246.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790624001745)
Abstract: Explainable Artificial Intelligence refers to developing artificial intelligence models and systems that can provide clear, understandable, and transparent explanations for their decisions and predictions. In deep learning, where complex neural networks often operate as “black boxes”, the importance of explainable AI lies in enhancing trust, accountability, and interoperability. For further advancement of explainable artificial intelligence in deep learning, gaining a deep understanding of its applications, approaches, evaluation metrics, current advancements, and challenges is imperative. Therefore, in this article, we began exploring the vast array of applications of explainable AI in different deep learning models, scrutinizing them within the context of existing research. We then explored explainable AI approaches used in Deep Learning models and discussed prevalent evaluation metrics used in evaluating a model’s explainability. Subsequently, we precisely reviewed the experimental results and advancements of recent state-of-the-art experiments related to explainable AI in deep learning. Finally, we discussed the diverse challenges encountered in sentiment analysis and proposed future research directions to mitigate these concerns. This extensive review provides a complete understanding of explainable AI in deep learning, covering its applications, approaches, experimental analysis, challenges, and research directions.
Keywords: Explainable artificial intelligence; Transparent artificial intelligence; Explainable deep learning; Interpretable deep learning; Model explanation

Yan Zhou,
A serial semantic segmentation model based on encoder-decoder architecture,
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 295,
2024,
111819,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2024.111819.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705124004532)
Abstract: The thriving progress of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and the outstanding efficacy of Visual Transformers (ViTs) have delivered impressive outcomes in the domain of semantic segmentation. However, each model in isolation entails a trade-off between high computational complexity and compromised computational efficiency. To address this challenge, we effectively combine the CNN and encoder-decoder structures in a Transformer-inspired fashion, presenting the Serial Semantic Segmentation Trans via CNN Former (SSS-Former) model. To augment the feature extraction capability, we utilize the meticulously crafted SSS-CSPNet, resulting in a well-designed architecture for the holistic model. We propose a novel SSS-PN attention network that enhances the spatial topological connections of features, leading to improved overall performance. Additionally, the integration of SASPP bridges the semantic gap between multi-scale features and enhances segmentation ability for overlapping objects. To fulfill the requirement of real-time segmentation, we leverage a novel restructuring technique to devise a more lightweight and faster ResSSS-Former model. Abundant experimental results demonstrate that both SSS-Former and ResSSS-Former outperform existing state-of-the-art methods in terms of computational efficiency, result precision, and speed. Remarkably, SSS-Former achieves a mIoU of 58.63 % at 89.1FPS on the ADE20K dataset. On the validation and testing datasets of CityScapes, it obtains mIoU scores of 85.1 % and 85.2 % respectively, with a speed of 94.1FPS. Our optimized ResSSS-Former achieves impressive real-time segmentation results, with an astonishing 100+FPS while maintaining high segmentation accuracy. The compelling results from the ISPRS datasets further validate the effectiveness of our proposed models in segmenting multi-scale and overlapping objects.
Keywords: Semantic segmentation; Lawin transformer; CNN; Encoder-decoder; Attention mechanism

Yuteng Lu, Weidi Sun, Meng Sun,
Towards mutation testing of Reinforcement Learning systems,
Journal of Systems Architecture,
Volume 131,
2022,
102701,
ISSN 1383-7621,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sysarc.2022.102701.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1383762122001977)
Abstract: Reinforcement Learning (RL), one of the most active research areas in artificial intelligence, focuses on goal-directed learning from interaction with an uncertain environment. RL systems play an increasingly important role in many aspects. Therefore, its safety issues have received more and more attention. Testing has achieved great success in ensuring safety of traditional software systems. However, traditional testing approaches hardly consider RL systems. To fill this gap, we propose a novel mutation testing framework specialized for RL systems. We propose a series of mutation operators simulating possible errors that RL systems may encounter, and show how to make comprehensive mutations of RL systems with these operators. Furthermore, test environments are provided to reveal possible problems within RL systems. The mutation testing technique can be helpful in the construction of RL systems, and mutation scores specialized for RL systems are used to analyze the extent of potential faults and evaluate the quality of test environments. Our evaluation in three popular environments, namely FrozenLake, CartPole, and MountainCar demonstrates the practicability of the proposed techniques.
Keywords: Mutation testing; Reinforcement Learning; AI safety

Sadoon Azizi, Mohammad Shojafar, Pedram Farzin, Javad Dogani,
DCSP: A delay and cost-aware service placement and load distribution algorithm for IoT-based fog networks,
Computer Communications,
Volume 215,
2024,
Pages 9-20,
ISSN 0140-3664,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2023.12.016.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140366423004516)
Abstract: The service placement problem in a fog-cloud pertains to the intricate task of ascertaining the optimal placement locations for diverse service replicas that constitute an Internet of Things (IoT) application within a distributed computing architecture. Nonetheless, due to the heterogeneous nature of fog nodes and cloud data centers, the constantly evolving nature of IoT applications, the pressing demand for real-time data processing with minimal latency, and the imperative of cost optimization, service placement remains an arduous and intricate challenge. Heuristic algorithms are widely employed to derive near-optimal solutions. The present study introduces a novel heuristic approach to service placement and load distribution in fog-cloud environments called Delay and Cost-aware Service Placement (DCSP). This approach takes into account both delay and cost and thereby enables the optimal utilization of resources, delay, and cost for delay-sensitive services. DCSP features continual adjustment of the number of service replicas based on workload and resource availability, ensuring efficient usage of fog and cloud computing resources and optimal delay for each request. The results of simulation experiments that compare various algorithms demonstrate the superiority of DCSP, which outperforms other methods in cost, average delay, and resource utilization. The experimental results not only illustrate the exceptional superiority of our method over MOHGA, MVC, and the Local method in terms of delay and utilization but also demonstrate our efforts to maintain cost at a comparable level. Our method surpasses all of them in utilization, achieving remarkable improvements ranging from 7.4 % to 49.7 %. Furthermore, it outperforms them in terms of delay, with significant enhancements ranging from 2.1 % to 19.3 %.
Keywords: Internet of things; Cloud computing; Fog computing; Service placement; Load distribution; Delay and cost-aware

Carlos Hidalgo, Myriam Vaca, Mateusz P. Nowak, Piotr Frölich, Martin Reed, Mays Al-Naday, Asterios Mpatziakas, Aikaterini Protogerou, Anastasios Drosou, Dimitrios Tzovaras,
Detection, control and mitigation system for secure vehicular communication,
Vehicular Communications,
Volume 34,
2022,
100425,
ISSN 2214-2096,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vehcom.2021.100425.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214209621000942)
Abstract: The increase in the safety and privacy of automated vehicle drivers against hazardous cyber-attacks will lead to a considerable reduction in the number of global deaths and injuries. In this sense, the European Commission has focused attention on the security of communications in high-risk systems when receiving a cyber-attack such as automated vehicles. The project SerIoT comes up as an possible solution, providing a useful open and reference framework for real-time monitoring of the traffic exchanged through heterogeneous IoT platforms. This system is capable of recognize suspicious patterns, evaluate them and finally take mitigate actions. The paper presents a use case of the SerIoT project related to rerouting tests in vehicular communication. The goal is to ensure secure and reliable communication among Connected Intelligent Transportation Systems (C-ITS) components (vehicles, infrastructures, etc) using the SerIoT's system capabilities to detect and mitigate possible network attacks. Therefore, fleet management and smart intersection scenarios were chosen, where vehicles equipped with On Board Units (OBU) interact with each other and Road Side Units (RSU) to accomplish an optimal flow of traffic. These equipments use the SerIoT systems to deal with cyber-attacks such as Denial of Service (DoS). Tests have been validated in different scenarios under threats situations. It shows the great performance of the SerIoT system taking the corresponding actions to ensure a continuous and safety traffic flow.
Keywords: C-ITS; Secure communications; SerIoT system; Fleet management; Smart intersection

Hyung-Soo Kim, Jaehwan Seong, Hyung-Jo Jung,
Optimal domain adaptive object detection with self-training and adversarial-based approach for construction site monitoring,
Automation in Construction,
Volume 158,
2024,
105244,
ISSN 0926-5805,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2023.105244.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0926580523005046)
Abstract: In practice, object detection models used for construction site monitoring exhibit performance degradation owing to different monitoring settings and dynamic construction environments. Collecting and labeling images from new construction sites is necessary to mitigate these challenges; however, this requires significant resources. This paper presents an optimal domain-adaptive object detection model that employs an unsupervised domain adaptation approach to address the performance degradation challenges. Experiments were conducted at two construction sites to validate and identify the most effective domain-adaptive object detection model for construction sites. Several domain-adaptive object detection models have been developed, and our experimental results demonstrate that a hybrid approach, combining self-training and adversarial-based approaches improves the mean average precision by 12.8 and 7.1 over that of the baseline model at each construction site. These findings underscore the potential of domain adaptation-based methods to train object detection models in the construction domain, offering improved performance and reduced labeling efforts at specific target construction sites.
Keywords: Construction sites monitoring; Computer vision; Unsupervised domain adaptation; Domain adaptive object detection; Self-training; Adversarial-based domain adaptation

Muhammet Deveci, Ilgin Gokasar, Dragan Pamucar, Aws Alaa Zaidan, Xin Wen, Brij B. Gupta,
Evaluation of Cooperative Intelligent Transportation System scenarios for resilience in transportation using type-2 neutrosophic fuzzy VIKOR,
Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice,
Volume 172,
2023,
103666,
ISSN 0965-8564,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tra.2023.103666.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0965856423000861)
Abstract: There is a critical need for research in proactive and predictive management of the resilience of transportation systems implementing new technologies. Cooperative Intelligent Transportation System (C-ITS) uses wireless technology to allow vehicles and infrastructure to talk to each other in real-time. This makes it easier for people to work together on the road and makes it possible to make safer and more efficient traffic flows. Significant progress may be made in the transportation industry as a result of the incorporation of self-powered sensors into C-ITS providing resilience in transportation operation. One advantageous feature is that these sensors, which generate their power, could be deployed in a variety of C-ITS implementation scenarios. To assist decision-makers in making the most informed choice possible concerning investments and implementations, a type-2 neutrosophic number (T2NN) based VIKOR (VlseKriterijumska Optimizacija I Kompromisno Resenje) method is used to perform advantage prioritization. To accomplish this goal, a case study is carried out to determine which of the three alternatives is the most suitable based on a set of twelve criteria that is divided into four aspects. According to the findings, the applicability and short-term benefits are the most crucial factors in determining which option is the most advantageous for the use of self-powered sensors in C-ITS. This is because both of these factors have an immediate impact on the system.
Keywords: Transportation systems; Resilience; Decision making; Fuzzy sets; Uncertain decision making

Ahmad Nsouli, Wassim El-Hajj, Azzam Mourad,
Reinforcement learning based scheme for on-demand vehicular fog formation,
Vehicular Communications,
Volume 40,
2023,
100571,
ISSN 2214-2096,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vehcom.2023.100571.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214209623000013)
Abstract: The high need of real-time vehicular applications for self-driving cars to maintain service availability and reachability, and to process huge amount of generated data within a small amount of time, rise the need to improve the vehicular network infrastructure. Fog computing has been introduced to reduce the amount of data sent to cloud by bringing processing power near the edge and reducing latency. In this paper, we overcome the aforementioned limitations by taking advantage of Istio service mesh and kubeadm clustering to handle inter-service communication and provide clusters to serve nearby vehicles, the evolvement of On-Board Units in vehicle supplies enough processing power to run reinforcement learning model in taking action of pushing microservices to cluster, and the efficiency of Hungarian Algorithm to assign microservices to vehicles. We propose in our scheme (1) a service mesh architecture that manages communication between multiple microservices across different clusters and tackle inter-service communication, (2) a Reinforcement Learning model deployed on road side units to predict on-demand placement of microservices on cluster or caching at RSU, and (3) Reformulating the vehicular container placement (VCP) problem as an assignment problem to map microservices to vehicles. Experiments and simulations show that the reinforcement learning model served 90% of requests when deploying microservices which is more efficient than current strategies in the literature. Given that only needed microservices are deployed in limited resource cluster, mesh network shows an improvement of 84% in the deployment time and inter-service communication across clusters, and the usage of Hungarian algorithm in solving the VCP improves Quality of Service (QoS).
Keywords: Reinforcement learning; Vehicular fog computing; Vehicular clustering; Kubeadm; Hungarian algorithm; Istio service mesh

Benjamin Denham, Russel Pears, M. Asif Naeem,
HDSM: A distributed data mining approach to classifying vertically distributed data streams,
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 189,
2020,
105114,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2019.105114.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705119304836)
Abstract: The rise in the Internet of Things (IoT) and other sensor networks has created many vertically-distributed and high-velocity data streams that require specialized algorithms for true distributed data mining. This paper proposes a novel Hierarchical Distributed Stream Miner (HDSM) that learns relationships between the features of separate data streams with minimal data transmission to central locations. Experimental evaluation demonstrates significant improvements in classification accuracy over previously proposed distributed stream-mining approaches while minimizing data transmission and computational costs. HDSM’s potential for dynamically trading off accuracy with computational resource costs is also demonstrated.
Keywords: Distributed data stream mining; Vertically-distributed data; Online classification

An Guo, Yang Feng, Yizhen Cheng, Zhenyu Chen,
Semantic-guided fuzzing for virtual testing of autonomous driving systems,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 212,
2024,
112017,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2024.112017.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121224000608)
Abstract: Autonomous driving systems (ADS) have achieved spectacular development and have been utilized in numerous safety-critical tasks. Nonetheless, in spite of their considerable advancement, ADS perception components with high complexity and low interpretability often demonstrate unexpected corner-case behaviors. Several real-world accidents involving self-driving cars even lead to fatalities. Before rolling the autonomous vehicles out to the end-users, it is vital to test and guarantee the safety of ADS. As one of the most critical autonomous driving testing techniques, the prevailing virtual testing depends on the tester using tool-specific languages to code traffic simulation programs correctly. However, this process often requires plenty of effort, and it may fail to capture various rare events from complex driving situations that require sophisticated awareness of the surroundings. In this paper, we design and implement a semantic-guided scene fuzzing framework for autonomous driving systems, namely FuzzScene, based on the metamorphic testing theory. It employs driving scenario description language for scenario representation and equips a tree-based mutation strategy to generate tests with proper oracle information. To improve the testing efficiency and detect misbehaviors under different settings, we propose a unique sampling strategy and construct a testing guidance criterion to optimize FuzzScene. We experiment FuzzScene with multiple steering controllers to evaluate its performance on different tasks. The experiment results show that the semantic transformed driving scenarios generated by FuzzScene efficiently detect hundreds of inconsistent behaviors of ADS. Also, the results confirm that FuzzScene can improve steering precision by retraining with the generated scenes.
Keywords: Software testing; Fuzz testing; Driving scenario description language; Autonomous driving system

Fernando Sevilla Martínez, Raúl Parada, Jordi Casas-Roma,
CO2 impact on convolutional network model training for autonomous driving through behavioral cloning,
Advanced Engineering Informatics,
Volume 56,
2023,
101968,
ISSN 1474-0346,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2023.101968.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474034623000964)
Abstract: Autonomous driving and the machine learning (ML) models developed to achieve it have grown rapidly in importance and complexity respectively, and with them has also grown their carbon footprint due to long training times. Given the importance of climate change, it should be necessary to include the CO2 impact of ML models explicitly to encourage competition on more than just model quality. This work presents the implementation of two different Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) training approaches, used for autonomous driving by behavioral cloning in a simulated environment and compares their impact on the CO2 footprint. Using a cloud execution environment and driving data, previously obtained by applying an end-to-end deep learning technique, the first implemented training approach is a classical approach that uses an image generator that carries out the pre-processing and data augmentation during training. The contribution proposed in this paper is a second approach that improves the training by decreasing the training time, carrying out the data augmentation and pre-processing tasks before training the model, storing the result in RAM and then starting the training. The new approach to training presented in this article finishes the training approximately 38 times faster and reduces the carbon footprint impact by approximately 96%. In absolute values, this is a reduction from an average value of approximately 0.1643 CO2eq (kg) to 0.007 CO2eq (kg). To estimate the impact of CO2, the hardware used for the project, the training time and the cloud service provider were all taken into account.
Keywords: Convolutional Neural Network (CNN); Self-driving; Behavioral cloning; CO2 impact

Zakria Qadir, Fahim Ullah, Hafiz Suliman Munawar, Fadi Al-Turjman,
Addressing disasters in smart cities through UAVs path planning and 5G communications: A systematic review,
Computer Communications,
Volume 168,
2021,
Pages 114-135,
ISSN 0140-3664,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2021.01.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140366421000116)
Abstract: UAVs are increasingly incorporated in a wide range of domains such as disaster management and rescue missions. UAV path planning deals with finding the most optimal or shortest path for UAVs such that minimum energy and resources are utilized. This paper examines the path planning algorithms for UAVs through a literature survey conducted on 139 systematically retrieved articles published in the last decade that are narrowed down to 36 highly relevant articles. As retrieved from the shortlisted articles, the path planning algorithms include RRT, Artificial Potential, Voronoi, D-Star, A-Star, Dijkstra, MILP, Neural Network, Ant Colony Optimization, and Particle Swarm Optimization that are classified into four main types: Model-based, Conventional, Learning-based, and Cell-based. Most of the disaster-related articles are focused on the post-disaster phase only and use conventional and learning-based algorithms with applications to localize victims and optimize paths. Regarding the UAV communication network (UAVCN), the key challenges are communication issues, resource allocation, UAV deployment, defining UAV trajectory, and content security. UAV path planning’s key barriers are path optimization, path completeness, optimality, efficiency, and achieving robustness. Accordingly, a holistic IoT-powered UAV-based smart city management system has been recommended in the current study where all the smart city key components are integrated to address disasters like floods, earthquakes, and bush fire. The proposed holistic system can help prepare for disasters and mitigate them as soon as these arise and help enhance the smart city governance.
Keywords: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs); UAV path planning; UAV communication networks (UAVCN); Disaster management; Smart cities

Xuan Wang, Zhaojie Sun, Abdellah Chehri, Gwanggil Jeon, Yongchao Song,
Deep learning and multi-modal fusion for real-time multi-object tracking: Algorithms, challenges, datasets, and comparative study,
Information Fusion,
Volume 105,
2024,
102247,
ISSN 1566-2535,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2024.102247.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1566253524000253)
Abstract: Real-time multi-object tracking (MOT) is a complex task involving detecting and tracking multiple objects. After the objects are detected, they are assigned markers, and their trajectories are tracked in real-time. The scientific community is intrigued by the possibilities of utilizing MOT technology in the context of smart cities. Their primary focus lies in the domains of intelligent transportation, detection of vehicles and pedestrians, crowd surveillance, and public safety. Deep learning techniques have been developed in recent years to effectively tackle the challenges of real-time MOT tasks and enhance tracking performance. Environmental perception within smart traffic applications relies heavily on sensor data fusion. In traffic scenarios, a thoughtful approach involves utilizing a combination of sensors and cameras to detect and track targets while gathering valuable data effectively. However, it faces challenges when it comes to detecting and tracking objects that are in motion, have complex changes in appearance, or are in crowded scenes. This paper explores the foundational standard for real-time Multiple Object Tracking tasks. We prioritize the examination of quantitative measures by conducting a comprehensive analysis of widely utilized benchmark datasets and metrics. This study also investigates established embedding techniques and multi-modal fusion methods within real-time multi-target tracking algorithms. Each strategy will be classified and assessed according to a predefined set of principles. The paper presents a comprehensive analysis and visual representation of various MOT strategies. Finally, this paper aims to present an overview of the current challenges faced by the MOT mission, as well as the potential objectives that lie ahead.
Keywords: Pedestrian detection; Multi-object tracking; Deep learning; Typical baselines; Smart cities

Lucas Bréhon–Grataloup, Rahim Kacimi, André-Luc Beylot,
Mobile edge computing for V2X architectures and applications: A survey,
Computer Networks,
Volume 206,
2022,
108797,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2022.108797.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128622000263)
Abstract: In mobile environments, with the help of larger bandwidths and cloud computing solutions, any task can be offloaded from a mobile user equipment to be handled remotely. However, even though this process is accelerated with every cellular generation, with 5G being no exception, offloading to a faraway centralized cloud implies non-negligible delay. To tackle this issue concerning delay-sensitive applications, mobile edge computing, now denominated as multi-access edge computing (MEC), was brought to light. With cloud resources brought closer to the edge of the network, MEC greatly reduces task offloading delay, thereby striving to satisfy the constraints of real-time applications. As highly demanding mobile applications, vehicular networks are a target to be addressed in terms of performance, especially communication and computation delay. In this article, we establish the specificities of MEC when applied to the Internet of Vehicles (IoV), and survey recent papers studying implementations of MEC relevant to real-time vehicular considerations. We categorize these latest V2X architectures so as to unveil the mechanisms behind their improved performance: network availability and coverage, reliability and loss of network connectivity, large data handling and task offloading. This survey not only provides an initial understanding of the state-of-the-art advancements in the field of MEC-enabled vehicular networks, but also raises open issues and challenges that need to be addressed before enjoying the full benefits of this paradigm.
Keywords: Internet of Vehicles; IEEE-802.11p; Cellular networks; Mobile edge computing; Multi-access edge computing; Vehicular edge computing; Task offloading; Quality of service; Cache management

Claude Baron, Vincent Louis,
Towards a continuous certification of safety-critical avionics software,
Computers in Industry,
Volume 125,
2021,
103382,
ISSN 0166-3615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2020.103382.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361520306163)
Abstract: Many industries use safety-critical systems and software, the failure of which may result in the loss of human lives. This article investigates the development and certification of safety-critical software, with a focus on the avionics industry. It highlights the problems encountered in companies to demonstrate compliance with the certification requirements and indicates current industrial practices. It demonstrates the interest and importance of closely and continuously integrating certification requirements in the software development process. It underlines a very recent trend in industry that consists in taking inspiration from agile principles in order to ensure that certification requirements applicable to software development are met as early as possible. It presents some successful industrial experiments and concludes on practical lessons that could be transferred to other projects.
Keywords: Agile development; DevOps; Development process; Certification standards; Avionics; Safety-critical software engineering;

Oliver Dlugosch, Tobias Brandt, Dirk Neumann,
Combining analytics and simulation methods to assess the impact of shared, autonomous electric vehicles on sustainable urban mobility,
Information & Management,
Volume 59, Issue 5,
2022,
103285,
ISSN 0378-7206,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2020.103285.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S037872061930182X)
Abstract: Urban mobility is currently undergoing three fundamental transformations with the sharing economy, electrification, and autonomous vehicles changing how people and goods move across cities. In this paper, we demonstrate the valuable contribution of decision support systems that combine data-driven analytics and simulation techniques in understanding complex systems such as urban transportation. Using the city of Berlin as a case study, we show that shared, autonomous electric vehicles can substantially reduce resource investments while keeping service levels stable. Our findings inform stakeholders on the trade-off between economic and sustainability-related considerations when fostering the transition to sustainable urban mobility.
Keywords: Urban mobility; Sustainability; Simulation; Decision support; Shared autonomous electric vehicles

P. Cebrian, J.C. Moure,
Massively-parallel column-level segmentation of depth images,
Journal of Computational Science,
Volume 50,
2021,
101298,
ISSN 1877-7503,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jocs.2021.101298.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877750321000016)
Abstract: Column-level segmentation of depth images is an energy-efficient strategy to perform 3D perception in autonomous-driving systems. These systems must perform 3D perception in real time through a pipeline of multiple tasks, which benefits from proposals that prioritize low complexity and short execution time over high levels of accuracy. For many years, column-level segmentation of depth images has been solved with the Stixels proposal, which uses an optimization algorithm with O(n2) computational complexity. This manuscript is an extended version of the ICCS paper “GPU-accelerated RDP Algorithm for Data Segmentation” (Cebrian and Moure, 2020). We present an alternative column-level segmentation proposal based on the RDP split-and-merge strategy, which has O(n⋅logn) computational complexity. The qualitative results obtained with the KITTI and Synthia image datasets evidence that our proposal can generate depth representations with greater compression and accuracy than the Stixels proposal. More importantly, we engineered a massively parallel design optimized for the low-power, GPU-accelerated embedded systems typically used for autonomous driving applications. For the datasets above, our proposal runs on a low-power NVIDIA Volta GPU 22 to 68 times faster than Stixels GPU-accelerated code. Additionally, our code achieves higher performance speedups as the computational capabilities and size of depth images increase.
Keywords: GPU acceleration; Data segmentation; Segmented parallel reduction

Martijn Koot, Martijn R.K. Mes, Maria E. Iacob,
A systematic literature review of supply chain decision making supported by the Internet of Things and Big Data Analytics,
Computers & Industrial Engineering,
Volume 154,
2021,
107076,
ISSN 0360-8352,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2020.107076.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360835220307464)
Abstract: The willingness to invest in Internet of Things (IoT) and Big Data Analytics (BDA) seems not to depend on supply nor demand of technological innovations. The required sensing and communication technologies have already matured and became affordable for most organizations. Businesses on the other hand require more operational data to address the dynamic and stochastic nature of supply chains. So why should we wait for the actual implementation of tracking and monitoring devices within the supply chain itself? This paper provides an objective overview of state-of-the-art IoT developments in today’s supply chain and logistics research. The main aim is to find examples of academic literature that explain how organizations can incorporate real-time data of physically operating objects into their decision making. A systematic literature review is conducted to gain insight into the IoT’s analytical capabilities, resulting into a list of 79 cross-disciplinary publications. Most researchers integrate the newly developed measuring devices with more traditional ICT infrastructures to either visualize the current way of operating, or to better predict the system’s future state. The resulting health/condition monitoring systems seem to benefit production environments in terms of dependability and quality, while logistics operations are becoming more flexible and faster due to the stronger emphasis on prescriptive analytics (e.g., association and clustering). Further research should extend the IoT’s perception layer with more context-aware devices to promote autonomous decision making, invest in wireless communication networks to stimulate distributed data processing, bridge the gap in between predictive and prescriptive analytics by enriching the spectrum of pattern recognition models used, and validate the benefits of the monitoring systems developed.
Keywords: Internet of Things; Big Data Analytics; Supply chain management; Decision making; Systematic literature review

Qi Zhang, Wenmiao Chen, Wen Ling,
Policy optimization of hydrogen energy industry considering government policy preference in China,
Sustainable Production and Consumption,
Volume 33,
2022,
Pages 890-902,
ISSN 2352-5509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2022.08.017.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352550922002238)
Abstract: The hydrogen energy industry in China is in the policy-oriented stage; the market expectation generated by government policy guidance has promoted the development of the industry, and encouraged provincial governments to speed up the setting of various hydrogen-energy-related policies and regulations. In this study, we performed a text-mining and content analysis of 153 hydrogen energy industry policies published by the province government office between 2015 and 2021 with NVivo12 Plus, and compared 2015–2020 and 2021 policy content. The analysis findings showed: 1. The safety supervision and publicity of the hydrogen energy industry are not strong enough; 2. Policies related to hydrogen energy production are incomplete. 3. China's hydrogen energy industry policy focuses more on the application of hydrogen fuel cells (HFCs) and vehicles (HFCVs), but the policies for hydrogen storage and transportation are insufficient. 4. The government attaches importance to the layout of infrastructure construction, especially hydrogen refueling stations (HRSs), but the policies for the expansion of other hydrogen energy applications are simple; 5. Policy subsidy methods are diversified but application-related subsidies are relatively weak. Therefore, we recommend the following policy optimizations: 1. Strengthen the complementarity of hydrogen energy industrial clusters, and improve product quality and popularity; 2. Increase the proportion of hydrogen-production policies, and break through the bottleneck of on-site hydrogen production policies in due course; 3. Optimize the combined selection of storage and transportation methods, and promote the construction of hydrogen refueling combined stations; 4. Promote diversified hydrogen energy application scenarios, and achieve efficient hydrogen energy consumption; 5. Strengthen auxiliary policies for the hydrogen energy industry chain, and reduce the dependence of the hydrogen energy industry on financial subsidies.
Keywords: Hydrogen energy; Policy analysis; Qualitative analysis; NVivo12 Plus
